<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>Three.js tutorial - Lesson 07</title>
		<meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>

		<!-- The following meta line optimizes the site for mobile devices. It sets the viewport size
		to the screen size, so it will be displayed maximized, but unscaled. -->
		<meta name="viewport" content="width=768, height=1024"/>
		<style type="text/css">
			body {
				/* Set the background color of the HTML page to black */
				background-color: #000000;

				/* Hide oversized content. This prevents the scroll bars. */
				overflow: hidden;

				/* Define the font and the color for the usage, which is an ordinary HTML overlay. */
				font-family: Monospace;
				color: white;
			}
		</style>
		<!-- Include two libraries
		1. Three.js (core library)
		2. Detector.js (checks the browsers WebGL capabilities) -->
		<script src="../js/three.js"></script>
		<script src="../js/Detector.js"></script>
	</head>
	<body>
		<!-- Create a DIV element, which will be shown over the WebGL canvas. The last line
		("Renderer: ") will be completed either by "WebGL Renderer" or by "Canvas Renderer". -->
		<div id="overlaytext" style="position: absolute; top: 10px; left: 10px">
			'F': Loop through the three texture filters (only for WebGL renderer)<br/>
			'L': Toggle light (only for WebGL renderer)<br/>
			Cursor left / right: Control y rotation speed<br/>
			Cursor up / down: Control x rotation speed<br/>
			Renderer:
			<p>Min Filter: <span id="minFilterType">Linear</span><br/>
                Mag Filter: <span id="magFilterType">Linear</span></p>
            <p id="textureSize">Texture Size: 1024</p>
		</div>

		<!-- This is the DIV element which will contain the WebGL canvas. To be identifiable later on,
		the id 'WebGLCanvas' is applied to it. -->
		<div id="WebGLCanvas"/>

		<!-- This JavaScript block encloses the Three.js commands -->
		<script> <![CDATA[
			// Global scene object
			var scene;

			// Global camera object
			var camera;

			// x and y rotation
			var xRotation = 0.0;
			var yRotation = 0.0;

			// Rotation speed around x and y axis
			var xSpeed = 0.0;
			var ySpeed = 0.0;

            // Translation along the z axis
            var zTranslation = 0.0;

			// Texture and flag for current texture filter
			var wallTexture;
            var textureSize = 1024;
			var textureFilter = 0;

            var filter = [ THREE.NearestFilter,
                           THREE.LinearFilter,
                           THREE.NearestMipMapNearestFilter,
                           THREE.LinearMipMapLinearFilter ];

            var filterType = [ "Nearest",
                               "Linear",
                               "NearestMipMapNearest",
                               "LinearMipMapLinear" ];

            // The next two objects hold two different kinds of light: Ambient and directional light.
            // 'enableLights' is the flag, which is switched by the key 'f'.
            var ambientLight;
            var directionalLight;

            // Global mesh object of the cube
			var cubeMesh;

			// Initialize the scene
			initializeScene();

			// Animate the scene
			animateScene();

			/**
			 * Initialze the scene.
			 */
			function initializeScene(){
				// Check whether the browser supports WebGL. If so, instantiate the hardware accelerated
				// WebGL renderer. For antialiasing, we have to enable it. The canvas renderer uses
				// antialiasing by default.
				// The approach of multiplse renderers is quite nice, because your scene can also be
				// viewed in browsers, which don't support WebGL. The limitations of the canvas renderer
				// in contrast to the WebGL renderer will be explained in the tutorials, when there is a
				// difference.
				webGLAvailable = false;
				if(Detector.webgl){
					renderer = new THREE.WebGLRenderer({antialias:true});
					webGLAvailable = true;
					document.getElementById("overlaytext").innerHTML += "WebGL Renderer";

				// If its not supported, instantiate the canvas renderer to support all non WebGL
				// browsers
				} else {
					renderer = new THREE.CanvasRenderer();
					document.getElementById("overlaytext").innerHTML += "Canvas Renderer";
				}

				// Set the background color of the renderer to black, with full opacity
				renderer.setClearColor(0x000000, 1);

				// Get the size of the inner window (content area)
				// Reduce the canvas size a little bit to prevent scrolling the whole window
				// content in Firefox while rotating the cube with the keys.
				canvasWidth = 768;
				canvasHeight = 1024;

				// Set the renderers size to the content area's size
				renderer.setSize(canvasWidth, canvasHeight);

				// Get the DIV element from the HTML document by its ID and append the renderers DOM
				// object to it
				document.getElementById("WebGLCanvas").appendChild(renderer.domElement);

				// Create the scene, in which all objects are stored (e. g. camera, lights,
				// geometries, ...)
				scene = new THREE.Scene();

				// Now that we have a scene, we want to look into it. Therefore we need a camera.
				// Three.js offers three camera types:
				//  - PerspectiveCamera (perspective projection)
				//  - OrthographicCamera (parallel projection)
				//  - CombinedCamera (allows to switch between perspective / parallel projection
				//    during runtime)
				// In this example we create a perspective camera. Parameters for the perspective
				// camera are ...
				// ... field of view (FOV),
				// ... aspect ratio (usually set to the quotient of canvas width to canvas height)
				// ... near and
				// ... far.
				// Near and far define the clipping planes of the view frustum. Three.js provides an
				// example (http://mrdoob.github.com/three.js/examples/
				// -> canvas_camera_orthographic2.html), which allows to play around with these
				// parameters.
				// The camera is moved 10 units towards the z axis to allow looking to the center of
				// the scene.
				// After definition, the camera has to be added to the scene.
				camera = new THREE.PerspectiveCamera(45, canvasWidth / canvasHeight, 1, 100);
				camera.position.set(0, 0, 6);
				camera.lookAt(scene.position);
				scene.add(camera);

				// Create the cube
				var cubeGeometry = new THREE.BoxGeometry(2.0, 2.0, 2.0);


				// Load an image as texture
				wallTexture = new THREE.ImageUtils.loadTexture("images/StoneWall-"+textureSize+".png");

				// Create a material, which contains the texture.
				// Activate the 'doubleSided' attribute to force the rendering of both sides of each
				// face (front and back). This prevents the so called 'backface culling'. Usually,
				// only the side is rendered, whose normal vector points towards the camera. The other
				// side is not rendered (backface culling). But this performance optimization sometimes
				// leads to holes in the surface. When this happens in your surface, simply set
				// 'doubleSided' to 'true'.
				var cubeMaterial = new THREE.MeshLambertMaterial({ map:wallTexture, side:THREE.DoubleSide });

				if(!webGLAvailable){
					cubeMaterial = new THREE.MeshBasicMaterial({
						map:wallTexture,
						side:THREE.DoubleSide
					});
				}

				// Create a mesh and insert the geometry and the material. Finally, add the mesh
				// to the scene.
				cubeMesh = new THREE.Mesh(cubeGeometry, cubeMaterial);
				cubeMesh.position.set(0.0, 0.0, 0.0);
				scene.add(cubeMesh);

				// Ambient light has no direction, it illuminates every object with the same
				// intensity. If only ambient light is used, no shading effects will occur.
				ambientLight = new THREE.AmbientLight(0x010101, 1.0);
				scene.add(ambientLight);

				// Directional light has a source and shines in all directions, like the sun.
				// This behaviour creates shading effects.
				directionalLight = new THREE.DirectionalLight(0xffffff, 1.0);
                directionalLight.position.set( 0, 1, 6 ).normalize();
                scene.add(directionalLight);

				// Add a listener for 'keydown' events. By this listener, all key events will be
				// passed to the function 'onDocumentKeyDown'. There's another event type 'keypress'.
				// It will report only the visible characters like 'a', but not the function keys
				// like 'cursor up'.
				document.addEventListener("keydown", onDocumentKeyDown, false);
			}

			/**
			 * This function is called, when a key is oushed down.
			 */
			function onDocumentKeyDown(event) {
                // Get the key code of the pressed key
                var keyCode = event.which;

                if (keyCode == 70) {        // 'F' - Toggle through the texture filters
                    updateFilter();

                }
                else if (keyCode == 76) {   // 'L' - Toggle light
                    // Just toggle the intensity to turn lights on and off
                    ambientLight.intensity = ambientLight.intensity > 0 ? 0 : 1;
                    directionalLight.intensity = directionalLight.intensity > 0 ? 0 : 1;

                }
                else if (keyCode == 38) {   // Cursor up
                    xSpeed -= 0.005;

                }
                else if (keyCode == 40) {   // Cursor down
                    xSpeed += 0.005;

                }
                else if (keyCode == 37) {   // Cursor left
                    ySpeed -= 0.005;

                }
                else if (keyCode == 39) {   // Cursor right
                    ySpeed += 0.005;

                }
                else if (keyCode == 33) {   // page up
                    zTranslation -= 0.2;

                }
                else if (keyCode == 34) {   // Page down
                    zTranslation += 0.2;
                }
                else if (keyCode == 84) {   // 'T' switch textures
                    textureSize = textureSize == 1024 ? 256 : textureSize == 256 ? 64 : 1024;

                    cubeMesh.material.map = new THREE.ImageUtils.loadTexture("images/StoneWall-"+textureSize+".png");
                    updateFilter();
                    cubeMesh.material.needsUpdate = true;

                    document.getElementById("textureSize").innerHTML = "Texture Size: " + textureSize;
                }

                // need to stop propagation of the event or the Reading System will probably take back the focus
				event.stopPropagation();
            }

            /**
             *  Just update the filters
             */
            function updateFilter() {

                textureFilter = ++textureFilter % 4;

                cubeMesh.material.map.minFilter = filter[textureFilter];
                cubeMesh.material.map.magFilter = filter[textureFilter % 2];
                cubeMesh.material.map.needsUpdate = true;

                document.getElementById("minFilterType").innerHTML = filterType[textureFilter];
                document.getElementById("magFilterType").innerHTML = filterType[textureFilter % 2];
            }

			/**
			 * Animate the scene and call rendering.
			 */
			function animateScene(){
				// Update and set the rotation around x and y axis
				xRotation += xSpeed;
				yRotation += ySpeed;
				cubeMesh.rotation.set(xRotation, yRotation, 0.0);

                // Apply the the translation along the z axis
                cubeMesh.position.z = zTranslation;

                // Define the function, which is called by the browser supported timer loop. If the
				// browser tab is not visible, the animation is paused. So 'animateScene()' is called
				// in a browser controlled loop.
				requestAnimationFrame(animateScene);

				// Map the 3D scene down to the 2D screen (render the frame)
				renderScene();
			}

			/**
			 * Render the scene. Map the 3D world to the 2D screen.
			 */
			function renderScene(){
				renderer.render(scene, camera);
			}
		]]> </script>

	</body>
</html>
