<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
		<title>Three.js lesson - Lesson 05</title>
		<meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>

		<!-- The following meta line optimizes the site for mobile devices. It sets the viewport size
		to the screen size, so it will be displayed maximized, but unscaled. -->
		<meta name="viewport" content="width=768, height=1024"/>
		<style type="text/css">
			body {
				/* Set the background color of the HTML page to black */
				background-color: #000000;

				/* Hide oversized content. This prevents the scroll bars. */
				overflow: hidden;
			}
		</style>
		<!-- Include two libraries
		1. Three.three-js (core library)
		2. Detector.three-js (checks the browsers WebGL capabilities) -->
		<script src="../three-js/three.js"></script>
		<script src="../three-js/Detector.js"></script>
	</head>
	<body>
		<!-- This is the DIV element which will contain the WebGL canvas. To be identifiable later on,
		the id 'WebGLCanvas' is applied to it. -->
		<div id="WebGLCanvas">

		<!-- This JavaScript block encloses the Three.three-js commands -->
		<script type="text/javascript"> //<![CDATA[
			// Global scene object
			var scene;

			// Global camera object
			var camera;

			// Global mesh object of the pyramid
			var pyramidMesh;

			// Global mesh object of the cube
			var cubeMesh;

			// Initialize the scene
			initializeScene();

			// Animate the scene
			animateScene();

			/**
			 * Initialize the scene.
			 */
			function initializeScene(){
				// Check whether the browser supports WebGL. If so, instantiate the hardware accelerated
				// WebGL renderer. For antialiasing, we have to enable it. The canvas renderer uses
				// antialiasing by default.
				// The approach of multiplse renderers is quite nice, because your scene can also be
				// viewed in browsers, which don't support WebGL. The limitations of the canvas renderer
				// in contrast to the WebGL renderer will be explained in the tutorials, when there is a
				// difference.
				if(Detector.webgl){
					renderer = new THREE.WebGLRenderer({antialias:true});

				// If its not supported, instantiate the canvas renderer to support all non WebGL browsers
				} else {
					renderer = new THREE.CanvasRenderer();
				}

				// Set the background color of the renderer to black, with full opacity
				renderer.setClearColor(0x000000, 1);

				// Get the size of the inner window (content area) to create a full size renderer
				canvasWidth = 768;
				canvasHeight = 1024;

				// Set the renderers size to the content areas size
				renderer.setSize(canvasWidth, canvasHeight);

				// Get the DIV element from the HTML document by its ID and append the renderers DOM
				// object to it
				document.getElementById("WebGLCanvas").appendChild(renderer.domElement);

				// Create the scene, in which all objects are stored (e. g. camera, lights,
				// geometries, ...)
				scene = new THREE.Scene();

				// Now that we have a scene, we want to look into it. Therefore we need a camera.
				// Three.three-js offers three camera types:
				//  - PerspectiveCamera (perspective projection)
				//  - OrthographicCamera (parallel projection)
				//  - CombinedCamera (allows to switch between perspective / parallel projection
				//    during runtime)
				// In this example we create a perspective camera. Parameters for the perspective
				// camera are ...
				// ... field of view (FOV),
				// ... aspect ratio (usually set to the quotient of canvas width to canvas height)
				// ... near and
				// ... far.
				// Near and far define the cliping planes of the view frustum. Three.three-js provides an
				// example (http://mrdoob.github.com/three.js/examples/
				// -> canvas_camera_orthographic2.html), which allows to play around with these
				// parameters.
				// The camera is moved 10 units towards the z axis to allow looking to the center of
				// the scene.
				// After definition, the camera has to be added to the scene.
				camera = new THREE.PerspectiveCamera(45, canvasWidth / canvasHeight, 1, 100);
				camera.position.set(0, 0, 15);
				camera.lookAt(scene.position);
				scene.add(camera);

				// To create a pyramid, we use THREE.CylinderGeometry. By its five parameters, we are
				// able to create the geometry of the pyramid (subtype of a cylinder).
				// Parameter 1 'radiusTop': Controls the radius of the upper end of the cylinder. If we
				//                          set to to '0', we have a cone.
				// Parameter 2 'radiusBottom': Controls the radius of the lower end.
				// Parameter 3 'height': Sets the height of the cylinder.
				// Parameter 4 'segments': Number of segments, forming the cylindrical shell. To create
				//                         a pyramid, we choose '4'.
				// Parameter 5 'openEnded': Allows to have open ends ('true') or closed ends ('false')
				//                          of the cylinder. Since the pyramid shall have a bottom
				//                          face, we set it to 'false'.
				var pyramidGeometry = new THREE.CylinderGeometry(0, 1.5, 1.5, 4, false);

				// The pyramid geometry used to optionally use a Face4, but Face4 was removed in r62C
				// We just loops through all the faces and set the the three vertex colors.
				for (var i = 0; i < pyramidGeometry.faces.length; i++) {

					pyramidGeometry.faces[i].vertexColors[0] = new THREE.Color(0xFF0000);
					pyramidGeometry.faces[i].vertexColors[1] = new THREE.Color(0x00FF00);
					pyramidGeometry.faces[i].vertexColors[2] = new THREE.Color(0x0000FF);

				}

				// To activate the vertex color, we have to set 'vertexColors' attribute to
				// 'THREE.VertexColors'. Otherwise they won't be displayed.

				// Create a basic material, supporting vertex colors. Activate the 'doubleSided'
				// attribute to force the rendering of both sides of each face (front and back).
				// This prevents the so called 'backface culling'. Usually, only the side is
				// rendered, whose normal vector points towards the camera. The other side is not
				// rendered (backface culling). But this performance optimization sometimes leads
				// to wholes in the surface. When this happens in your surface, simply set
				// 'doubleSided' to 'true'.
				var pyramidMaterial = new THREE.MeshBasicMaterial({
					vertexColors:THREE.VertexColors,
					side:THREE.DoubleSide
				});

				// Create a mesh and insert the geometry and the material. Translate the whole mesh
				// by -1.5 on the x axis and by 4 on the z axis. Finally add the mesh to the scene.
				pyramidMesh = new THREE.Mesh(pyramidGeometry, pyramidMaterial);
				pyramidMesh.position.set(-1.5, 0.0, 4.0);
				scene.add(pyramidMesh);

				// Create the cube
				// Parameter 1: Width
				// Parameter 2: Height
				// Parameter 3: Depth
				var cubeGeometry = new THREE.BoxGeometry(1.5, 1.5, 1.5);

				// Applying different materials to the faces is a more difficult than applying one
				// material to the whole geometry. We start with creating an array of
				// THREE.MeshBasicMaterial.

				// Define six colored materials
				var cubeMaterials = [
					new THREE.MeshBasicMaterial({color:0xFF0000}),
					new THREE.MeshBasicMaterial({color:0x00FF00}),
					new THREE.MeshBasicMaterial({color:0x0000FF}),
					new THREE.MeshBasicMaterial({color:0xFFFF00}),
					new THREE.MeshBasicMaterial({color:0x00FFFF}),
					new THREE.MeshBasicMaterial({color:0xFFFFFF})
				];

				// Create a MeshFaceMaterial, which allows the cube to have different materials on
				// each face
				var cubeMaterial = new THREE.MeshFaceMaterial(cubeMaterials);

				// Create a mesh and insert the geometry and the material. Translate the whole mesh
				// by 1.5 on the x axis and by 4 on the z axis and add the mesh to the scene.
				cubeMesh = new THREE.Mesh(cubeGeometry, cubeMaterial);
				cubeMesh.position.set(1.5, 0.0, 4.0);
				scene.add(cubeMesh);
			}

			/**
			 * Animate the scene and call rendering.
			 */
			function animateScene(){
				// Increase the y rotation of the triangle
				pyramidMesh.rotation.y += 0.1;

				// Decrease the rotation of the cube
				cubeMesh.rotateOnAxis(new THREE.Vector3(1, 1, 1).normalize(), 0.075);

				// Define the function which is called by the browser supported timer loop. If the
				// browser tab is not visible, the animation is paused. So 'animateScene()' is called
				// in a browser controlled loop.
				requestAnimationFrame(animateScene);

				// Map the 3D scene down to the 2D screen (render the frame)
				renderScene();
			}

			/**
			 * Render the scene. Map the 3D world to the 2D screen.
			 */
			function renderScene(){
				renderer.render(scene, camera);
			}
        //]]></script>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
