<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
    <title>NeHe-EPUB-06</title>
    <link type="text/css" href="../css/NeHe-EPUB.css" rel="stylesheet"/>
    <link type="text/css" href="../css/prism.css" rel="stylesheet"/>
    <script src="../three-js/prism.js"></script>
    <meta charset="utf-8"/>
</head>
<body>
<h2>Lesson 6 - Texture This!</h2>
<p>Now that we have added some depth, it's time to move on from simple colors to something a little more exciting. We're going to create a single cube again, but this time, instead of color, we'll apply a texture to it - where the texture is drawn from an image. Three.js does most of the heavy lifting here, so this is a fairly short lesson. </p>
<p>Again, we instantiate a scene and call <span class="inline-code">initializeScene()</span>where all the work gets done.    </p>
<p>First  we need to create the cube. This is easy to as three.js provides a BoxGeometry. which takes just the same three parameters:</p>

<pre><code class="language-javascript">var cubeGeometry = new THREE.BoxGeometry(1.5, 1.5, 1.5);</code></pre>

<p>Note that like most three.js objects, BoxGeometry takes more than 3 parameters, but it's all we need here.</p>

<p>Next we need to load the texture, which is pretty easy</p>


<pre><code class="language-javascript">var neheTexture = new THREE.ImageUtils.loadTexture("../images/NeHe.jpg");</code></pre>

<p>Again, there are a LOT more parameters to loading a texture (and displaying it), but we'll come back to those in a later lesson. For now we need to use the texture to create a new material for our cube.</p>
<pre><code class="language-javascript">var cubeMaterial = new THREE.MeshBasicMaterial({
    map:neheTexture,
    side:THREE.DoubleSide
});</code></pre>

<p>The we just create the mesh, same as before and insert the geometry and the material. Translate the whole mesh
by  by 4 on the z axis and add the mesh to the scene.</p>

<pre><code class="language-javascript">cubeMesh = new THREE.Mesh(cubeGeometry, cubeMaterial);
cubeMesh.position.set(1.5, 0.0, 4.0);
scene.add(cubeMesh);</code></pre>
  
<p>Again, we animate them in our animateScene function. This time we want the rotations to be different on each axis (just for fun), so we define 3 variables</p>
		
<pre><code class="language-javascript">var xRotation = 0.0;
var yRotation = 0.0;
var zRotation = 0.0;</code></pre>

<p>And then we increment each of them separately in our animateScene function.</p>

<pre><code class="language-javascript">xRotation += 0.03;
yRotation += 0.02;
zRotation += 0.04;
cubeMesh.rotation.set(xRotation, yRotation, zRotation);</code></pre>
           
<p>And that's it!  Go on to the next page to see the actual rendered demo in all its textured glory!</p>
</body>
</html>