<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
		<title>Three.js tutorial - Lesson 06</title>
		<meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>

		<!-- The following meta line optimizes the site for mobile devices. It sets the viewport size
		to the screen size, so it will be displayed maximized, but unscaled. -->
		<meta name="viewport" content="width=768, height=1024"/>
		<style type="text/css">
			body {
				/* Set the background color of the HTML page to black */
				background-color: #000000;

				/* Hide oversized content. This prevents the scroll bars. */
				overflow: hidden;
			}
		</style>
		<!-- Include two libraries
		1. Three.js (core library)
		2. Detector.js (checks the browsers WebGL capabilities) -->
		<script src="../js/three.js"></script>
		<script src="../js/Detector.js"></script>
	</head>
	<body>
		<!-- This is the DIV element which will contain the WebGL canvas. To be identifiable later on,
		the id 'WebGLCanvas' is applied to it. -->
		<div id="WebGLCanvas">

		<!-- This JavaScript block encloses the Three.js commands -->
		<script type="text/javascript"> //<![CDATA[
        // Global scene object
        var scene;

        // Global camera object
        var camera;

        // The cube has to rotate around all three axes, so we need three rotation values.
        var xRotation = 0.0;
        var yRotation = 0.0;
        var zRotation = 0.0;

        // Global mesh object of the cube
        var cubeMesh;

        // Initialize the scene
        initializeScene();

        // Animate the scene
        animateScene();

        /**
         * Initialize the scene.
         */
        function initializeScene(){
            // Check whether the browser supports WebGL. If so, instantiate the hardware accelerated
            // WebGL renderer. For antialiasing, we have to enable it. The canvas renderer uses
            // antialiasing by default.
            // The approach of multiplse renderers is quite nice, because your scene can also be
            // viewed in browsers, which don't support WebGL. The limitations of the canvas renderer
            // in contrast to the WebGL renderer will be explained in the tutorials, when there is a
            // difference.
            if(Detector.webgl){
                renderer = new THREE.WebGLRenderer({antialias:true});

                // If its not supported, instantiate the canvas renderer to support all non WebGL
                // browsers
            } else {
                renderer = new THREE.CanvasRenderer();
            }

            // Set the background color of the renderer to black, with full opacity
            renderer.setClearColor(0x000000, 1);

            // Get the size of the inner window (content area) to create a full size renderer
            canvasWidth = 768;
            canvasHeight = 1024;

            // Set the renderers size to the content areas size
            renderer.setSize(canvasWidth, canvasHeight);

            // Get the DIV element from the HTML document by its ID and append the renderers DOM
            // object to it
            document.getElementById("WebGLCanvas").appendChild(renderer.domElement);

            // Create the scene, in which all objects are stored (e. g. camera, lights,
            // geometries, ...)
            scene = new THREE.Scene();

            // Now that we have a scene, we want to look into it. Therefore we need a camera.
            // Three.js offers three camera types:
            //  - PerspectiveCamera (perspective projection)
            //  - OrthographicCamera (parallel projection)
            //  - CombinedCamera (allows to switch between perspective / parallel projection
            //    during runtime)
            // In this example we create a perspective camera. Parameters for the perspective
            // camera are ...
            // ... field of view (FOV),
            // ... aspect ratio (usually set to the quotient of canvas width to canvas height)
            // ... near and
            // ... far.
            // Near and far define the cliping planes of the view frustum. Three.js provides an
            // example (http://mrdoob.github.com/three.js/examples/
            // -> canvas_camera_orthographic2.html), which allows to play around with these
            // parameters.
            // The camera is moved 10 units towards the z axis to allow looking to the center of
            // the scene.
            // After definition, the camera has to be added to the scene.
            camera = new THREE.PerspectiveCamera(45, canvasWidth / canvasHeight, 1, 100);
            camera.position.set(0, 0, 15);
            camera.lookAt(scene.position);
            scene.add(camera);

            // Load an image as texture and create cube
            loadTexture();
        }

        function loadTexture () {
            var loader = new THREE.TextureLoader();

            // load image as texture, supplying a function which will be called
            loader.load( 'images/NeHe.jpg', function ( texture ) {
                var cubeMaterial = new THREE.MeshBasicMaterial({
                    map:texture,
                    side:THREE.DoubleSide
                });

                var cubeGeometry = new THREE.BoxGeometry(2.0, 2.0, 2.0);

                cubeMesh = new THREE.Mesh(cubeGeometry, cubeMaterial);
                cubeMesh.position.set(0.0, 0.0, 4.0);
                scene.add(cubeMesh);
            });
        }

        /**
         * Animate the scene and call rendering.
         */
        function animateScene(){
            // At last, we update the rotation values and assign it to the mesh's rotation.

            if (cubeMesh !== undefined) {
                // Increase the x, y and z rotation of the cube
                xRotation += 0.03;
                yRotation += 0.02;
                zRotation += 0.04;
                cubeMesh.rotation.set(xRotation, yRotation, zRotation);
            }

            // Define the function, which is called by the browser supported timer loop. If the
            // browser tab is not visible, the animation is paused. So 'animateScene()' is called
            // in a browser controlled loop.
            requestAnimationFrame(animateScene);

            // Map the 3D scene down to the 2D screen (render the frame)
            renderScene();
        }

        /**
         * Render the scene. Map the 3D world to the 2D screen.
         */
        function renderScene() {
            renderer.render(scene, camera);
        }
		//]]> </script>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
