<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="En-US">
    <head>
        <meta charset="UTF-8"/>
        <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../css/default.css" />
        <title>World Cultures and Geography</title>
    </head>
    <body xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" id="d20258e6-0" epub:type="frontmatter">
        <section epub:type="titlepage" id="d18656e11">
            <h1 id="d20258e8-0" epub:type="title">World Cultures and Geography</h1>
            <p>Sarah Witham Bednarz</p>
            <p>Ines M. Miyares</p>
            <p>Mark C. Schug</p>
            <p>Charles S. White</p>
            <!--<aside id="d20258e18-0" epub:type="annotation"> Please review annotations and their
                targets (@ref). Source document contained one or more annotations with no explicit
                references. </aside>-->
        </section>
        <section epub:type="copyright-page" id="d18656e22">
            <span epub:type="pagebreak" title="iv" id="piv"/>
            <h1 id="d20258e22-0">Senior Consultants</h1>
            <p>Sarah Witham Berdnarz is associate professor of geography at Texas A&amp;M
                University, where she has taught since 1988. She earned a Ph.D. in educational
                curriculum and instruction in 1992 from Texas A&amp;M University and has written
                extensively about geography literacy and education. Dr. Bednarz was an author of
                Geography for Life: National Geography Standards, 1994. In 1997 she received the
                International Excellence Award from the Texas A&amp;M University International
                Programs Office.</p>
            <p>Inés M. Miyares is associate professor of geography at Hunter College-City University
                of New York. Born in Havana, Cuba, and fluent in Spanish, Dr. Miyares has focused
                much of her scholarship on Latin America, immigration and refugee policy, and urban
                ethnic geography. She holds a Ph.D. in geography from Arizona State University. In
                1999 Dr. Miyares was the recipient of the Hunter College Performance Excellence
                Award for excellence in teaching, research, scholarly writing, and service.</p>
            <p>Mark C. Schug is director of the University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee Center for
                Economic Education. A 30-year veteran of middle school, high school, and university
                classrooms, Dr. Schug has been cited for excellence in teaching by the University of
                Wisconsin-Milwaukee and the Minnesota Council on Economic Education. In addition to
                coauthoring eight national economics curriculum programs, Dr. Schug has spoken on
                economic issues to audiences throughout the world. Dr. Schug edited The Senior
                Economist for the National Council for Economics Education from 1986 to 1996.</p>
            <p>Charles S. White is associate professor in the School of Education at Boston
                University, where he teaches methods of instruction in social studies. Dr. White has
                written and spoken extensively on the role of technology in social studies
                education. He has received numerous awards for his scholarship, including the 1995
                Federal Design Achievement Award from the National Endowment for the Arts, for the
                Teaching with Historic Places project. In 1997, Dr. White taught his Models of
                Teaching doctoral course at the Universidad San Francisco de Quito, Ecuador.</p>
            
                <p>Copyright © 2003 by McDougal Littell, a division of Houghton Mifflin Company. All
                    rights reserved.</p>
                <p>The USA TODAY® service mark has been licensed by USA TODAY® for use for certain
                    purposes by McDougal Littell, a division of Houghton Mifflin Company. USA TODAY®
                    charts, articles, and photographs incorporated in these reading materials are
                    displayed for informational and promotional purposes only. The USA TODAY®
                    charts, articles, and photographs incorporated herein are solely for private,
                    personal, and noncommercial use. Any other use of the USA TODAY® charts,
                    articles, and photographs incorporated herein, without prior express written
                    permission of USA TODAY®, is strictly prohibited.</p>
                <p>Maps on pages A1-A25 © Rand McNally &amp; Company. All rights reserved.</p>
                <p>No part of this work may be reproduced or transmitted in any form or by any
                    means, electronic or mechanical, including photocopying and recording, or by any
                    information storage or retrieval system without the prior written permission of
                    McDougal Littell, a division of Houghton Mifflin Company, unless such copying is
                    expressly permitted by federal copyright law. Send inquiries to Manager, Rights
                    and Permissions, McDougal Littell, a division of Houghton Mifflin Company, P.O.
                    Box 1667, Evanston, IL 60204.</p>
                <p>Acknowledgments begin on page R50.</p>
                <p>ISBN 0-618-16841-9</p>
                <p>
                    <span>Printed in the United States of America</span>
                    <br/>
                    <span>4 5 6 7 8 9 - VJM - 07 06 05 04 03</span>
                    <br/>
                </p>
            
        </section>
    </body>
</html>
