<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
	<head>
		<title>The Untold Story: Metadata</title>
		<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="css/epub.css" />
	</head>
	<body>
		<section class="sect1" title="The Untold Story: Metadata">
			<h2 class="title" id="_the_untold_story_metadata">The Untold Story: Metadata</h2>
			<p>Bringing up the topic of metadata usually triggers thoughts about the need to include
				title and author information in an ebook. While certainly a necessity, this kind of
				traditional metadata is not what we’re going to delve into now.</p>
			<p>One of the big issues facing people with disabilities as they try to enter the ebook
				market is how to discover the quality of the ebooks they want to buy. One ebook is
				not the same as another, as we’ve been discussing, and readers need to know what
				they’re getting when they pay for your product. And you should be rewarded for your
				commitment to accessibility by having your ebooks stand out from the crowd.</p>
			<p>Unfortunately, in the past, once you pushed your ebook into a distribution channel,
				whatever good work you had done to make your content accessible would become
				indistinguishable from all the inaccessible content out there to the person on the
				purchasing end. At about the same time that EPUB 3 was being finalized, however, the
				people at EDItEUR introduced a new set of accessibility metadata for use in ONIX
				records. This metadata plugs the information gap.</p>
			<aside class="note" title="Note">
				<h3 class="title">Note</h3>
				<p>This guide can’t possibly explain all of ONIX, nor would it be the appropriate
					place to do so. If you are not familiar with the standard, please visit the <a
						class="ulink" href="http://www.editeur.org" target="_top">EDItEUR Web
						site</a> for more information.</p>
			</aside>
			<p>An ONIX record, if you’re not familiar, is an industry-standard message (xml record)
				that accompanies your publication, providing distributors with both content and
				distribution metadata. This information is typically used to market and sell your
				ebook, and these new properties now allow you to enhance that information with the
				accessible features your ebook includes. Retailers can then make this information
				available in the product description, for example, so readers can determine whether
				the ebook will adequately meet their needs. It’s also not a stretch to imagine this
				information being integrated into bookstore search engines to allow readers to
				narrow their results based on their needs.</p>
			<p>To include accessibility metadata in your ONIX record, you use the <code
					class="literal">ProductFormFeature</code> element, which is described in the
				standard as a composite container for product information (e.g., it is also used to
				provide product safety information). To identify that the element contains
				accessibility information, it must include a <code class="literal"
					>ProductFormFeatureType</code> child element with the value <code
					class="literal">09</code>, as in the following example:</p>
			<pre class="screen">&lt;ProductFormFeature&gt;
    &lt;ProductFormFeatureType&gt;09&lt;/ProductFormFeatureType&gt;
    …
&lt;/ProductFormFeature&gt;</pre>
			<p>When this value is encountered, it indicates that the value of the sibling <code
					class="literal">ProductFormFeatureValue</code> element is drawn from <a
					class="ulink"
					href="http://www.editeur.org/ONIX/book/codelists/current.html#codelist196"
					target="_top">ONIX for Books codelist 196</a>, which defines the new accessible
				properties and the values to use in identifying them. As of writing, this codelist
				includes the following properties:</p>
			<ul class="itemizedlist">
				<li class="listitem"><p> No reading system accessibility options disabled (10)
					</p></li>
				<li class="listitem"><p> Table of contents navigation (11) </p></li>
				<li class="listitem"><p> Index navigation (12) </p></li>
				<li class="listitem"><p> Reading order (13) </p></li>
				<li class="listitem"><p> Short alternative descriptions (14) </p></li>
				<li class="listitem"><p> Full alternative descriptions (15) </p></li>
				<li class="listitem"><p> Visualised data also available as non-graphical data (16)
					</p></li>
				<li class="listitem"><p> Accessible math content (17) </p></li>
				<li class="listitem"><p> Accessible chem content (18) </p></li>
				<li class="listitem"><p> Print-equivalent page numbering (19) </p></li>
				<li class="listitem"><p> Synchronised pre-recorded audio (20) </p></li>
			</ul>
			<p>So, for example, if our EPUB contains accessible math formulas (using MathML) we
				would indicate it as follows:</p>
			<pre class="screen">&lt;ProductFormFeature&gt;
    &lt;ProductFormFeatureType&gt;09&lt;/ProductFormFeatureType&gt;
    &lt;ProductFormFeatureValue&gt;17&lt;/ProductFormFeatureValue&gt;
&lt;/ProductFormFeature&gt;</pre>
			<p>Likewise, to indicate accessible chemistry content (using ChemML) we would use the
				value <code class="literal">18</code>:</p>
			<pre class="screen">&lt;ProductFormFeature&gt;
    &lt;ProductFormFeatureType&gt;09&lt;/ProductFormFeatureType&gt;
    &lt;ProductFormFeatureValue&gt;18&lt;/ProductFormFeatureValue&gt;
&lt;/ProductFormFeature&gt;</pre>
			<p>You must repeat the <code class="literal">ProductFormFeature</code> element for each
				accessibility requirement your EPUB meets; it is not valid to combine all your
				features into a single element.</p>
			<p>You must also ensure that you make yourself familiar with the requirements for
				compliance before adding any accessibility properties; each of the properties
				defined in codelist 196 includes conformance criteria. EPUB requires table of
				contents navigation, for example, but the addition of the required navigation
				document does not automatically indicate compliance. You need to include full
				navigation, plus navigation to any tables and figures, before you comply with the
				table of contents navigation requirement. Likewise, all EPUBs have a reading order
				defined by the spine element in the package document, but that does not mean you
				comply to including a reading order. You need to ensure that sidebars and footnotes
				and similar information has been properly marked up so as not to interfere with the
				narrative flow, as we went over in the section on the logical reading order.</p>
			<p>It is additionally worth noting that there are three properties that aren’t directly
				related to the content of your EPUB:</p>
			<ul class="itemizedlist">
				<li class="listitem"><p> Compatibility tested (97) </p></li>
				<li class="listitem"><p> Trusted intermediary contact (98) </p></li>
				<li class="listitem"><p> Publisher contact for further accessibility information
						(99) </p></li>
			</ul>
			<p>Each of these properties requires the addition of a child <code class="literal"
					>ProductFormFeatureDescription</code> element to describe compliance:</p>
			<pre class="screen">&lt;ProductFormFeature&gt;
    &lt;ProductFormFeatureType&gt;09&lt;/ProductFormFeatureType&gt;
    &lt;ProductFormFeatureValue&gt;97&lt;/ProductFormFeatureValue&gt;
    &lt;ProductFormFeatureDescription&gt;
        Content has been tested to work on iBooks, Sony Reader and Adobe Digital
        Editions in both scripting enabled and disabled modes.
    &lt;/ProductFormFeatureDescription&gt;
&lt;/ProductFormFeature&gt;</pre>
			<p>Whatever compatibility testing you’ve performed should be listed using code 97 so
				that readers can better determine the suitability of your ebook for their purposes.
				Not all reading systems and assistive technologies work alike, or interact well
				together, and real-world testing is the only way to tell what does and does not
				work.</p>
			<p>There are organizations who specialize in testing across a broad spectrum of devices
				who can assist you in evaluating your content, as this kind of evaluation can be no
				small undertaking. A good practice to develop, for example, might be to periodically
				have typical examples of content coming out of your production stream tested for
				compatibility issues. The resulting statement could then be re-used across much of
				your content, so long as the features and markup used remain consistent.</p>
			<p>Once you start getting creative with your content (e.g., using extensive scripted
				interactivity), you should engage experts as early on in the process as you can to
				ensure any statement you make remains true, however.</p>
			<p>The other two codes provide contact information for the person(s) in your
				organization, or at a trusted intermediary, who can provide additional accessibility
				information:</p>
			<pre class="screen">&lt;ProductFormFeature&gt;
    &lt;ProductFormFeatureType&gt;09&lt;/ProductFormFeatureType&gt;
    &lt;ProductFormFeatureValue&gt;99&lt;/ProductFormFeatureValue&gt;
    &lt;ProductFormFeatureDescription&gt;
        accessibility-officer@example.com
    &lt;/ProductFormFeatureDescription&gt;
&lt;/ProductFormFeature&gt;</pre>
			<p>If you’re providing educational materials, for example, you’ll want to provide
				educators a way to be able to contact you to determine whether your content will be
				accessible by students with various needs that may not be specifically addressed in
				your compatibility testing statement or in the available metadata properties. </p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
