<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
	<head>
		<title>A Blank Slate: Canvas</title>
		<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="css/epub.css" />
	</head>
	<body>
		<section class="sect1" title="A Blank Slate: Canvas">
			<h2 class="title" id="_a_blank_slate_canvas">A Blank Slate: Canvas</h2>
			<p>Another anticipated use for scripting is to automate the new HTML5 <code
					class="literal">canvas</code> element. This element provides an automatable
				surface for drawing on, whether it’s done by the content creator (games, animations,
				etc.) or the reader (drawing or writing surface), which is why I omitted tackling it
				with the rest of the semantics and structure elements.</p>
			<p>Although a potentially interesting element to use in ebooks, at this time the <code
					class="literal">canvas</code> element remains largely a black hole to assistive
				technologies. A <a class="ulink"
					href="http://www.paciellogroup.com/blog/2011/12/html5-canvas-accessibility-discussions-2009-2011/"
					target="_top">summary of the discussions</a> that have been taking place to fix
				the accessibility problems as of writing is available on the Paciello Group website.
				Fixes for these accessibility issues will undoubtedly come in time, perhaps directly
				for the element or perhaps through WAI-ARIA, but it’s too soon to say.</p>
			<p>So is the answer to avoid the element completely until the problems are solved? It
				would be nice if you could, but wouldn’t be realistic to expect of everyone. Using
				it judiciously would be a better course to steer.</p>
			<p>For now including accessible alternatives is about all you can do. If you’re using
				the element to draw graphs and charts, you could add a description with the data
				using the <code class="literal">aria-describedby</code> attribute and the techniques
				we outlined while dealing with images. If you’re using the element for games and the
				like, consider the issues we detailed at the outset of the section in determining
				how much information to give.</p>
			<p>With <code class="literal">canvas</code>, we really have to wait and see,
				unfortunately.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
