<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
	<head>
		<title>Accessible EPUB 3</title>
		<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="css/epub.css" />
	</head>
	<body>
		<section xml:lang="en" class="book" title="Accessible EPUB 3" id="I_book_d1e1">
			<h1 class="title">Accessible EPUB 3</h1>
			<div class="author"><span class="firstname">Matt</span> <span class="surname">Garrish</span></div>
			<div class="editor">
				<p>Editor</p>
				<p class="editor"><span class="firstname">Brian</span> <span class="surname">Sawyer</span></p>
			</div>
			<div class="editor">
				<p>Editor</p>
				<p class="editor"><span class="firstname">Dan</span> <span class="surname">Fauxsmith</span></p>
			</div>
			<div>
				<p class="copyright">Copyright © 2012 O’Reilly Media, Inc</p>
			</div>
			<div>
				<div class="legalnotice" title="Legal Notice" id="id2603834">
					<p>O’Reilly books may be purchased for
								educational, business, or sales promotional use. Online editions are
								also available for most titles (<a class="ulink"
									href="http://my.safaribooksonline.com/?portal=oreilly"
									target="_top">http://my.safaribooksonline.com</a>). For more
								information, contact our corporate/institutional sales department:
								(800) 998-9938 or <span class="email"><a class="email"
										href="mailto:corporate@oreilly.com"
										>corporate@oreilly.com</a></span>.</p>
				</div>
			</div>
			<div>
				<div class="legalnotice" title="Legal Notice" id="id2602563">
					<p>Nutshell Handbook, the Nutshell Handbook logo, and the
								O’Reilly logo are registered trademarks of O’Reilly Media, Inc.
									Accessible EPUB 3 and
								related trade dress are trademarks of O’Reilly Media, Inc.
								</p>
					<p>Many of the designations used by manufacturers and sellers to
								distinguish their products are claimed as trademarks. Where those
								designations appear in this book, and O’Reilly Media, Inc. was aware
								of a trademark claim, the designations have been printed in caps or
								initial caps.</p>
				</div>
			</div>
			<div>
				<div class="legalnotice" title="Legal Notice" id="id2600629">
					<p>While every precaution has
								been taken in the preparation of this book, the publisher and
								authors assume no responsibility for errors or omissions, or for
								damages resulting from the use of the information contained
								herein.</p>
				</div>
			</div>
			<div>
				<div class="legalnotice" title="Legal Notice" id="id2595045">
					<p></p>
				</div>
			</div>
			O’Reilly Media, Inc. 1005 Gravenstein Highway North Sebastopol CA 95472
			<hr />
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
