<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en"
	lang="en">
	<head>
		<title>Using Code Examples</title>
		<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="css/epub.css" />
	</head>
	<body>
		<section class="sect1" title="Using Code Examples">
			<h2 class="title" id="I_sect1_d1e176">Using Code Examples</h2>
			<p>This book is here to help you get your
				job done. In general, you may use the code in this book in your programs and
				documentation. You do not need to contact us for permission unless you’re
				reproducing a significant portion of the code. For example, writing a program that
				uses several chunks of code from this book does not require permission. Selling or
				distributing a CD-ROM of examples from O’Reilly books does require permission.
				Answering a question by citing this book and quoting example code does not require
				permission. Incorporating a significant amount of example code from this book into
				your product’s documentation does require permission.</p>
			<p>We appreciate, but do not require, attribution. An attribution usually includes the
				title, author, publisher, and ISBN. For example: “<em>Accessible EPUB 3</em> by Matt
				Garrish (O’Reilly). Copyright 2012 Matt Garrish, 9781449328030.”</p>
			<p>If you feel your use of code examples falls outside fair use or the permission given
				above, feel free to contact us at 
				<a class="email" href="mailto:permissions@oreilly.com">permissions@oreilly.com</a>.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
