<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
    <title>NeHe-EPUB-04</title>
    <link type="text/css" href="../css/NeHe-EPUB.css" rel="stylesheet"/>
    <link type="text/css" href="../css/prism.css" rel="stylesheet"/>
    <script src="../three-js/prism.js"></script>
    <meta charset="utf-8"/>
</head>
<body>
<h2>Lesson 4 - Let's Get Moving!</h2>
<p>Now that we have covered creating and coloring polygons, let's add some animation. Most of the source code is identical boilerplate
    to the second and third lessons so this lesson is also quite short.</p>
<p>Again, we instantiate a scene and call <span class="inline-code">initializeScene()</span>where all the work gets done.
    Similarly, the creation of the triangle and the square is identical to the third lesson. </p>
<p>The key difference in this lesson is that we don't call<span class="inline-code"> renderScene()</span> directly. Instead, 
we call <span class="inline-code">animateScene()</span> which invokes a special behaviour in the browser that repeatedly 
calls a callback function, which in turn calls <span class="inline-code">renderScene()</span>.</p>

<p>In the function, we first increase the y rotation of the triangle mesh and decrease the x rotation of the square mesh.</p>
	
<pre><code class="language-javascript">triangleMesh.rotation.y += 0.1;
squareMesh.rotation.x -= 0.075;</code></pre>

<p>Then we call a browser function, <span class="inline-code"><a href="https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/window/requestAnimationFrame">
    requestAnimationFrame</a></span>.  That method tells the browser that you wish to perform an
    animation and requests that the browser call a specified function to update an animation before the next repaint. The
    method takes as an argument a callback to be invoked before the repaint. In our case, the callback function we pass
    in is <span class="inline-code">animateScene</span>. Note that if the container (i.e. the browser window) is not visible,
    the animation is paused. </p>

<pre><code class="language-javascript">requestAnimationFrame(animateScene);</code></pre>

 <p>Note also that our callback function effectively calls<span class="inline-code"> requestAnimationFrame()</span> every
     time it is invoked - which is required - it's not a fire and forget sort of call.</p>
 <p>Finally, we actually call <span class="inline-code">renderScene()</span> which then maps the 3D scene down to the
     2D screen, just like the previous lessons</p>
 
<pre><code class="language-javascript">renderScene();</code></pre>

<p>And that's it!  Go on to the next page to see the actual rendered demo in all it's rainbow glory!</p>
</body>
</html>