<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"  xmlns:foo="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
    <head>        
        <meta charset="utf-8" />
        <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../css/base.css" />
        <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../css/fixed.css" />
		<meta name="viewport" content="width=576, height=1024"/>
    </head>
    <body>
    	<div class="fxl_content" >    
			<section id="landmarks-nav">
				<h2><code>landmarks nav</code></h2>
				
				<section id="epubnav-040" class="ctest">
					<h3><span class="nature">[REQUIRED]</span>
						<span class="test-id">epubnav-040</span> Access</h3>
					
					<p class="desc">Tests whether the <code>landmarks nav</code> can be accessed.</p>
					
					<p class="eval">If the Reading System provides a means to access the landmarks (access to the first page of content and the glossary),
						the test passes.</p>
					
					<p class="conditional">If this test fails, all subsequent tests for the <code>landmarks-nav</code> should be marked <code>Not Supported</code>.</p>
				</section>
				
				<section id="epubnav-050" class="ctest">
					<h3><span class="nature">[REQUIRED]</span>
						<span class="test-id">epubnav-050</span> Document-level linking</h3>
					
					<p class="desc">Tests whether linking to Content Documents from the <code>landmarks nav</code> is possible.</p>
					
					<p>To complete this test, bring up the landmarks and access the link labeled "Index". (If the
						Reading System provides a quick link to the index, that is also acceptable.)</p>
					
					<p class="eval">If a document with the title "Index" loads, the test passes.</p>
				</section>
				
				<section id="epubnav-060" class="ctest">
					<h3><span class="nature">[REQUIRED]</span>
						<span class="test-id">epubnav-060</span> Fragment-level linking</h3>
					
					<p class="desc">Tests whether linking to fragments within Content Documents from the <code>landmarks nav</code> is possible.</p>
					
					<p>To complete this test, bring up the landmarks and access the link labeled "Glossary". (If the
						Reading System provides a quick link to the glossary, that is also acceptable.)</p>
					
					<p class="eval">If the heading "Glossary" appears on the page that loads, the test passes.</p>
				</section>
			</section>
			
       	</div>
 		<div id="left"/><div id="right"/><div id="top"/><div id="bottom"/>       
    </body>
</html>
