<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"  xmlns:foo="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
    <head>        
        <meta charset="utf-8" />
        <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../css/base.css" />
        <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../css/fixed.css" />
		<meta name="viewport" content="width=576, height=1024"/>
    </head>
    <body>
    	<div class="fxl_content" > 
	    	<section id="media-overlay-001">
				<h1 id="mo-1">Basic Tests</h1>

		        <section id="mo-basic-010" class="otest"><h2><span class="nature">[OPTIONAL]</span> <span class="test-id">mo-basic-010</span> <span id="mo-2">Media Overlays Playback</span></h2>
		
		        	<p class="desc" id="mo-1-67">Tests whether playback of Media Overlays is supported.</p>
		
		            <p id="mo-3" class="eval">If there is a play/pause button that starts playing audio narration for the text on this page, then the Reading System supports Media Overlays (MO). Implied in this test is that the Reading System still recognizes MO even when the first chapter of the book does not contain it.</p>
		        </section>
		        
		        <section id="mo-basic-020" class="otest"><h2><span class="nature">[OPTIONAL]</span> <span class="test-id">mo-basic-020</span> <span id="mo-4">Synchronized Text Highlighting</span></h2>
		
		        	<p class="desc" id="mo-2-70">Tests whether text highlighting is supported.</p>
		
		        	<p id="mo-5" class="eval">If the matching text is highlighted as MO playback proceeds, then the Reading System supports synchronized text highlighting.</p>
		        </section>
		        
		        <section id="mo-basic-030" class="otest"><h2><span class="nature">[OPTIONAL]</span> <span class="test-id">mo-basic-030</span> <span id="mo-6">Text Highlighting: Authored Styles</span></h2>
		
		        	<p class="desc" id="mo-3-0">Tests whether authors can control the highlighting color.</p>
		
		        	<p id="mo-7" class="eval">If the text is highlighted with a pink background phrase-by-phrase as MO playback proceeds, then the Reading System supports authored styles for text highlighting.</p>
		        </section>
		        
		        <section id="mo-basic-040" class="otest"><h2><span class="nature">[OPTIONAL]</span> <span class="test-id">mo-basic-040</span> <span id="mo-10">Volume Control</span></h2>
		
		        	<p class="desc" id="mo-4-46">Tests whether the volume of the Media Overlay playback can be independently adjusted.</p>
		
		        	<p id="mo-11" class="eval">If you can adjust the MO volume independently of the device volume, then the Reading System supports volume control.</p>
		        </section>
	    	</section>
       	</div>
 		<div id="left"/><div id="right"/><div id="top"/><div id="bottom"/>       
    </body>
</html>
