<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
  <head>
    <meta charset="utf-8"/>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../css/base.css"/>
       <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../css/fixed.css" />
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=576, height=1024"/>   
  </head>
  <body>
		<h1 id="mo-1">Escapability</h1>

        <section id="mo-esc-010" class="otest"><h2><span class="nature">[OPTIONAL]</span> <span class="test-id">mo-esc-010</span> <span id="mo-010-1">Section Escapability - Basic</span></h2>

        	<p class="desc" id="mo-1-75">Tests whether basic escapability is supported.</p>

			<p id="mo-010-2">While Media Overlays (MO) are playing within the blue-bordered escapable element below, invoke the 'escape' command (assuming it is provided by the reading system).</p>

			<div id="esc1" epub:type="glossary" class="escapable1">

				<p id="mo-010-3">This is an escapable document fragment, identified by the <code>epub:type="glossary"</code> attribute (other values should also be supported, this is for illustration purposes only). Invoking the 'escape' command here should result in MO playback skipping the remainder of this fragment, and continuing to the next paragraph down below.</p>

				<p id="mo-010-4">This is the remainder of the escapable document fragment, containing filler text to allow time to invoke the 'escape' command...</p>

				<p id="mo-010-5">Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipisicing elit, sed do eiusmod tempor incididunt ut labore et dolore magna aliqua. Ut enim ad minim veniam, quis nostrud exercitation ullamco laboris nisi ut aliquip ex ea commodo consequat. Duis aute irure dolor in reprehenderit in voluptate velit esse cillum dolore eu fugiat nulla pariatur. Excepteur sint occaecat cupidatat non proident, sunt in culpa qui officia deserunt mollit anim id est laborum.</p>

			</div>
			
			<p id="mo-010-6">This is a normal paragraph, immediately following an escapable document fragment.</p>

        	<p class="eval" id="mo-2">If MO playback escapes from the blue-bordered escapable element, and resumes immediately after it, the test passes.</p>
        </section>
        

     </body>
</html>
