<!DOCTYPE html>
<!-- The previous line tells the browser that the page uses the HTML5 standard. -->
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>Nehe -three.js - Lesson 02</title>
		<meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>

		<!-- The following meta line sets the size of the fixed viewport for
		     a pre-paginated EPUB page -->
        <meta id="meta-viewport" name="viewport" content="height=1024,width=768" />
		<style type="text/css">
			body {
				/* Set the background color of the HTML page to black */
				background-color: #000000;

				/* Hide oversized content. This prevents the scroll bars. */
				overflow: hidden;
			}
		</style>
		<!-- Include two libraries
		1. Three.js (core library)
		2. Detector.js (checks the browsers WebGL capabilities) -->
		<script src="../js/three.js"></script>
		<script src="../js/Detector.js"></script>
	</head>
	<body id="page">
		<!-- This is the DIV element which will contain the WebGL canvas. To be identifiable later on,
		the id 'WebGLCanvas' is applied to it. -->
		<div id="WebGLCanvas">

		<!-- This JavaScript block encloses the Three.js commands -->
		<script>
			// Global objects
			var scene;
            var camera;
            var canvasHeight = 0;
            var canvasWidth  = 0;

            getMetaViewportHeightandWidth()

			// Initialize the scene
			initializeScene();

			// Render the scene (map the 3D world to the 2D scene)
			renderScene();

			// Fetch the height and width from the meta viewport tag
			function getMetaViewportHeightandWidth() {
                var content = document.getElementById("meta-viewport").getAttribute("content");
                var attrs = content.split(",");
                var w=0,h=1;
                if (attrs[0].indexOf("width") == -1) {
                    w = [h, h = w][0];
                }

                var values = attrs[w].split("=");
                canvasWidth = parseInt(values[1]);
                values = attrs[h].split("=");
                canvasHeight = parseInt(values[1]);
            }

			/**
			 * Initialize the scene.
			 */
			function initializeScene(){
				// Check whether the browser supports WebGL. If so, instantiate the hardware accelerated
				// WebGL renderer. For antialiasing, we have to enable it. The canvas renderer uses
				// antialiasing by default.
				// The approach of multiple renderers is quite nice, because your scene can also be
				// viewed in browsers, which don't support WebGL. The limitations of the canvas renderer
				// in contrast to the WebGL renderer will be explained in the lessons, when there is a
				// difference.
				if(Detector.webgl){
					renderer = new THREE.WebGLRenderer({antialias:true});

				// If its not supported, instantiate the canvas renderer to support all non WebGL
				// browsers
				} else {
					renderer = new THREE.CanvasRenderer();
				}

				// Set the background color of the renderer to black, with full opacity
				renderer.setClearColor(0x000000, 1);

				// Get the size of the inner window (content area) to create a full size renderer
                // we can't use this for the EPUB as the values aren't available within an EPUB renderer
				//canvasWidth = window.innerWidth;
				//canvasHeight = window.innerHeight;
                //console.log(" window: " + canvasWidth + "," + canvasHeight );

                // Set the renderers size to the content areas size
				renderer.setSize(canvasWidth, canvasHeight);

				// Get the DIV element from the HTML document by its ID and append the renderers DOM
				// object to it
				document.getElementById("WebGLCanvas").appendChild(renderer.domElement);

				// Create the scene, in which all objects are stored (e. g. camera, lights,
				// geometries, ...)
				scene = new THREE.Scene();

				// Now that we have a scene, we want to look into it. Therefore we need a camera.
				// Three.js offers three camera types:
				//  - PerspectiveCamera (perspective projection)
				//  - OrthographicCamera (parallel projection)
				//  - CombinedCamera (allows to switch between perspective / parallel projection
				//    during runtime)
				// In this example we create a perspective camera. Parameters for the perspective
				// camera are ...
				// ... field of view (FOV),
				// ... aspect ratio (usually set to the quotient of canvas width to canvas height)
				// ... near and
				// ... far.
				// Near and far define the clipping planes of the view frustum. Three.js provides an
				// example (http://mrdoob.github.com/three.js/examples/
				// -> canvas_camera_orthographic2.html), which allows to play around with these
				// parameters.
				// The camera is moved 10 units towards the z axis to allow looking to the center of
				// the scene.
				// After definition, the camera has to be added to the scene.
				camera = new THREE.PerspectiveCamera(45, canvasWidth / canvasHeight, 1, 100);
				camera.position.set(0, 0, 15);
				camera.lookAt(scene.position);
				scene.add(camera);

				// Create the triangle (or any arbitrary geometry).
				// 1. Instantiate the geometry object
				// 2. Add the vertices
				// 3. Define the faces by setting the vertices indices
				var triangleGeometry = new THREE.Geometry();
				triangleGeometry.vertices.push(new THREE.Vector3( 0.0,  1.0, 0.0));
				triangleGeometry.vertices.push(new THREE.Vector3(-1.0, -1.0, 0.0));
				triangleGeometry.vertices.push(new THREE.Vector3( 1.0, -1.0, 0.0));
				triangleGeometry.faces.push(new THREE.Face3(0, 1, 2));

				// To color the surface, a material has to be created. If all faces have the same color,
				// the THREE.MeshBasicMaterial fits our needs. It offers a lot of attributes (see
				// https://github.com/mrdoob/three.js/blob/master/src/materials/MeshBasicMaterial.js)
				// from which we need in this lesson only 'color'.

				// Create a white basic material and activate the 'doubleSided' attribute to force the
				// rendering of both sides of each face (front and back). This prevents the so called
				// 'backface culling'. Usually, only the side is rendered, whose normal vector points
				// towards the camera. The other side is not rendered (backface culling). But this
				// performance optimization sometimes leads to wholes in the surface. When this happens
				// in your surface, simply set 'doubleSided' to 'true'.
				var triangleMaterial = new THREE.MeshBasicMaterial({
					color:0xFFFFFF,
					side:THREE.DoubleSide
				});

				// Create a mesh and insert the geometry and the material. Translate the whole mesh
				// by -1.5 on the x axis and by 4 on the z axis. Finally add the mesh to the scene.
				var triangleMesh = new THREE.Mesh(triangleGeometry, triangleMaterial);
				triangleMesh.position.set(-1.5, 0.0, 4.0);
				scene.add(triangleMesh);

				// The creation of the square is done in the same way as the triangle, except of the
				// face definition. except that we
				// now need two THREE.Face3s.
				// 1. Instantiate the geometry object
				// 2. Add the vertices
				// 3. Define the faces by setting the vertices indices
				var squareGeometry = new THREE.Geometry();
				squareGeometry.vertices.push(new THREE.Vector3(-1.0,  1.0, 0.0));
				squareGeometry.vertices.push(new THREE.Vector3( 1.0,  1.0, 0.0));
				squareGeometry.vertices.push(new THREE.Vector3( 1.0, -1.0, 0.0));
				squareGeometry.vertices.push(new THREE.Vector3(-1.0, -1.0, 0.0));
				squareGeometry.faces.push(new THREE.Face3(0, 1, 2));
				squareGeometry.faces.push(new THREE.Face3(0, 2, 3));

				// Create a white basic material and activate the 'doubleSided' attribute.
				var squareMaterial = new THREE.MeshBasicMaterial({
					color:0xFFFFFF,
					side:THREE.DoubleSide
				});

				// Create a mesh and insert the geometry and the material. Translate the whole mesh
				// by 1.5 on the x axis and by 4 on the z axis and add the mesh to the scene.
				var squareMesh = new THREE.Mesh(squareGeometry, squareMaterial);
				squareMesh.position.set(1.5, 0.0, 4.0);
				scene.add(squareMesh);
			}


			/**
			 * Render the scene. Map the 3D world to the 2D screen.
			 */
			function renderScene(){
				renderer.render(scene, camera);
			}
		</script>
	</div>
	</body>
</html>
