<html xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
    <head>
        <title>Classification</title>
        <link type="text/css" rel="stylesheet" href="style.css"/>
        <!-- scripts from http://kennethjorgensen.com/canvas/tree.html -->
        <script type="text/javascript" src="script/jquery-1.3.2.js"></script>        
        <script type="text/javascript" src="script/SnakeCollection.js"></script>
        <script type="text/javascript" src="script/Snake.js"></script>
        <script type="text/javascript" src="script/tree.js"></script>        
        <style type="text/css">			
			#canvas {
				width: 16em;
				height: 8em;
				border: 1px solid black;
				margin: 1em;
			}			
		</style>
    </head>
    <body>
        <h2 id="c1">Classification</h2>
        <div class="mcol">
        <canvas id="canvas">Your Reading System does not support canvas.</canvas> 
        <p>A tree is a plant form that occurs in many different orders and families of plants. Most
            species of trees today are flowering plants (angiosperms) and conifers. Trees show a
            variety of growth forms, leaf type and shape, bark characteristics and reproductive
            organs. For the listing of examples of well-known trees and how they are classified, see
            List of tree genera.</p>
        <p>The tree form has evolved separately in unrelated classes of plants, in response to
            similar environmental challenges, making it a classic example of parallel evolution.
            With an estimate of 100,000 tree species, the number of tree species worldwide might
            total 25 percent of all living plant species. The majority of tree species grow in
            tropical regions of the world and many of these areas have not been surveyed yet by
            botanists, making species diversity and ranges poorly understood. The earliest
            tree-like organisms were tree ferns, horsetails and lycophytes, which grew in forests in
            the Carboniferous period, however these plants were not trees, since
            they lacked woody tissue. Trees evolved in the Triassic period, with conifers, ginkgos,
            cycads and other gymnosperms appeared producing woody tissue, and were subsequently
            followed by tree-form flowering plants in the Cretaceous period.</p>
        <p>A small group of trees growing together is called a grove or copse, and a landscape
            covered by a dense growth of trees is called a forest. Several biotopes are defined
            largely by the trees that inhabit them; examples are rainforest and taiga (see
            ecozones). A landscape of trees scattered or spaced across grassland (usually grazed or
            burned over periodically) is called a savanna. A forest of great age is called old
            growth forest or ancient woodland (in the UK). A young tree is called a sapling.</p>
        </div>   
    </body>
</html>
