<html xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
    <head>
        <title>Classification</title>
        <link type="text/css" rel="stylesheet" href="style.css" />
        <!-- scripts from http://kennethjorgensen.com/canvas/tree.html -->
        <script type="text/javascript" src="script/jquery-1.3.2.js"></script>
        <script type="text/javascript" src="script/SnakeCollection.js"></script>
        <script type="text/javascript" src="script/Snake.js"></script>
        <script type="text/javascript" src="script/tree.js"></script>
        <style type="text/css">
            #canvas {
                width : 16em;
                height : 8em;
                border : 1px solid black;
                margin : 1em;
            }</style>
    </head>
    <body>
        <h2 id="c1">Morphology</h2>
        <div class="mcol">
            <canvas id="canvas">Your Reading System does not support canvas.</canvas>
            <p>The parts of a tree are the roots, trunk(s), branches, twigs and leaves. Tree stems
                consist mainly of support and transport tissues (xylem and phloem). Wood consists of
                xylem cells, and bark is made of phloem and other tissues external to the vascular
                cambium. Trees may be grouped into exogenous and endogenous trees according to the
                way in which their stem diameter increases. Exogenous trees, which comprise the
                great majority of trees (all conifers, and almost all broadleaf trees), grow by the
                addition of new wood outwards, immediately under the bark. Endogenous trees, mainly
                in the monocotyledons (e.g., aloes and dragon trees), grow by addition of new
                material as discrete bundles within the existing trunk tissue.</p>
            <p>Trees can be identified to genus or species by a combination of the tree's shape, and
                the characteristics of its bark, leaves, flowers, and fruit. The leaves may be
                either deciduous or evergreen.</p>
            <p>As an exogenous tree grows, it creates growth rings as new wood is laid down
                concentrically over the old wood. In species growing in areas with seasonal climate
                changes, wood growth produced at different times of the year may be visible as
                alternating light and dark, or soft and hard, rings of wood. In temperate
                climates, and tropical climates with a single wet-dry season alternation, the growth
                rings are annual, each pair of light and dark rings being one year of growth; these
                are known as annual rings. In areas with two wet and dry seasons each year, there
                may be two pairs of light and dark rings each year; and in some (mainly semi-desert
                regions with irregular rainfall), there may be a new growth ring with each
                rainfall. In tropical rainforest regions, with constant year-round climate,
                growth is continuous and the growth rings are not visible nor is there a change in
                the wood texture. In species with annual rings, these rings can be counted to
                determine the age of the tree, and used to date cores or even wood taken from trees
                in the past, a practice known as the science of dendrochronology. Very few tropical
                trees can be accurately dated in this manner. Age determination in this manner is
                also impossible in endogenous trees.</p>
            <p>The roots of a tree are generally embedded in earth, providing anchorage for the
                above-ground biomass and absorbing water and nutrients from the soil. However, while
                ground nutrients are essential to a tree's growth the majority of its biomass – over
                90 percent – comes from carbon dioxide absorbed from the atmosphere (see
                photosynthesis). Above ground, the trunk gives height to the leaf-bearing
                branches, aiding in competition with other plant species for sunlight. In many
                trees, the arrangement of the branches optimizes exposure of the leaves to
                sunlight.</p>
            <p>Not all trees have all the plant organs or parts mentioned above. For example, the
                saguaro cactus of North America has no functional leaves. A plant form that is
                similar to a tree, but generally having smaller, multiple trunks and/or branches
                that arise near the ground, is called a shrub. However, no precise differentiation
                between shrubs and trees is possible. Given their small size, bonsai plants would
                not technically be "trees", but one should not confuse reference to the form of a
                species with the size or shape of individual specimens. A spruce seedling does not
                fit the definition of a tree, but all spruces are trees.</p>
        </div>
    </body>
</html>
