<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<!--
  			Roughly based (or inspired by) NeHe Tutorial 14  
  			Original:  http://nehe.gamedev.net/tutorial/outline_fonts/15004/
  
  			@author: rkwright@geofx.com
		 -->
		<title>NEHE Tutorial 14</title>
		<meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/>

		<!-- The following meta line optimizes the site for mobile devices. It sets the viewport size
		to the screen size, so it will be displayed maximized, but unscaled. -->
		<meta name="viewport" content="width=768, height=1024"/>
		<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../css/NeHe.css" />

		<!-- Include several libraries from THREE.three-js and the Scene class  -->
		<script src="../three-js/three.js" type="text/javascript"></script>
		<script src="../three-js/Detector.js" type="text/javascript"></script>
		<script src="../three-js/stats.js" type="text/javascript"></script>
		<script src="../gfx/OrbitControls-Touch-Ortho.js" type="text/javascript"></script>
		<script src="../gfx/gfx-scene.js" type="text/javascript"></script>
	</head>
	<body>	
		<script> <![CDATA[
			// global variables
			var     textGeom;
		
			var 	size = 1;				// this is actually the HEIGHT of the text. in user-space
			var 	height = 0.2;			// this is TOTALLY misnamed.  It is the thickness of the extruded text
			var		curveSegments = 10;		// number of points on "the curve" - which curve?
			var 	fontName = "../fonts/gentilis_bold.typeface.json";

			var		bevelThickness = 0.05;
			var		bevelSize = 0.05;
			var 	bevelEnabled = false;

			var		textMat = 0;
			var 	extrudeMaterial = 0;
			var		text= "Wowser";

			// allocate the Scene object, request orbitControls, some of 3D axes 10 units high and the stats
			var gfxScene = new GFX.Scene( {
				canvasWidth : 768,
				canvasHeight : 1024,
				cameraPos:[2,2,10],
				axesHeight:10,
				controls:true,
				displayStats:true });
			
			// then initialize our demo's stuff
			initializeDemo();

			// Animate the scene
			animateScene();

			/**
			 * Initialize the Demo.  
			 */
			function initializeDemo() {

				createText();
			}
				
			/**
			 * Here we actually create the text.  Not too much to it, actually.
			 */
			function createText() {

				// Note that one has to create a Material for both the face the side of the font.
				// Three.three-js has some bugs, as does the font-converter software at typface.three-js
				// http://typeface.neocracy.org/fonts.html.  The converter doesn't always keep the
				// same winding order for nested or adjacent paths and then three.three-js gets confused
				// In addition, with release 69 of three.three-js, you should not use smooth shading on the face
				// of the font. If you do, you will get some pretty odd artifacts.  Try it and see.
				// However, the face of the font is flat anyway, so flat shading is fine.
				// In addition, you shouldn't use Phong material on the sides.  Again, you'll get odd
				// artifacts.
				// Finally, go easy on the beveling as large bevels tend to look odd (more bugs?)
				var materialFront = new THREE.MeshPhongMaterial( { color: 0xff0000, shading: THREE.FlatShading } );
				var materialSide = new THREE.MeshLambertMaterial( { color: 0x000088 } );
				var materialArray = [ materialFront, materialSide ];

				var loader = new THREE.FontLoader();
				loader.load( fontName, function ( font ) {

                    textGeom = new THREE.TextGeometry(text, {
                        size: size,						// actually the height of the font, in user-space
                        height: height,					// THICKNESS of the extruded font, in user-space
                        curveSegments: curveSegments,
                        font: font,						// the THREE.font object
                        bevelThickness: bevelThickness,
                        bevelSize: bevelSize,
                        bevelEnabled: bevelEnabled
                    });

                    var textMaterial = new THREE.MeshFaceMaterial(materialArray);
                    var textMesh = new THREE.Mesh(textGeom, textMaterial);

                    // get the width of the string so we can center it on the origin
                    textGeom.computeBoundingBox();

                    var textWidth = textGeom.boundingBox.max.x - textGeom.boundingBox.min.x;

                    textMesh.position.set(-0.5 * textWidth, 0, 0);
                    gfxScene.add(textMesh);
                });
			}

			/**
			 * Animate the scene and call rendering.
			 */
			function animateScene() {

				// Tell the browser to call this function when page is visible
				requestAnimationFrame(animateScene);
				
				// Map the 3D scene down to the 2D screen (render the frame)
				gfxScene.renderScene();
			}
		]]> </script>
	</body>
</html>
