<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
	<title>NeHe-EPUB-Preface</title>
	<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../css/NeHe-EPUB.css"/>
	<meta charset="utf-8"/>
</head>
<body>
<div class="body">
<h1 style="text-align: center">Colophon</h1>
<p>This book was created using a variety of tools, but the general workflow was as follows:</p>
<ul>
  <li>The EPUB was begun by creating the <a href="http://www.idpf.org/epub/301/spec/epub-publications.html#sec-package-def">OPF</a>,
      then adding the requisite HTML, CSS and scripts to the OPF and creating those files.</li>
  <li>Editing of the OPF and other markup was done in <a href="https://www.jetbrains.com/webstorm/">Webstorm</a></li>
  <li>WYSIWYG editing of the HTML text that forms the chapters was done in <a href="http://www.adobe.com/products/dreamweaver.html">Dreamweaver</a>.
      An &quot;external tool&quot; shortcut was added to Webstorm to facilitate jumping back and forth.</li>
  <li>A little <a href="https://github.com/rkwright/UpdateModTime">Java program</a> was written (and invoked as a jar)
      that updates the OPF, setting the dcterms:modified to the current date and time</li>
  <li>A <a href="https://github.com/readium/readium-test-files/blob/master/util/scripts/zip-epub-check.sh">bash script</a>
      was written to invoke that jar, properly package (zip) all the sources of the Webstorm project and then run them against
      <a href="https://github.com/IDPF/epubcheck">EPUBCheck</a></li>
  </ul>
<p>The actual format of the EPUB is fairly straightforward. There are a few aspects that are interesting. First, each
    chapter or lesson is actually two different spine items. The main part of the chapter is a reflowable spine item.
    The final page of each chapter is the actual functional WebGL demo. It is a separate spine item which is a fixed-layout
    page where the itemref in the spine has an override. Thus the second chapter's spine items are</p>
<pre>&lt;itemref&#32;idref="lesson02"&#32;/&gt;
&lt;itemref&#32;idref="lesson02-gl"&#32;properties="rendition:layout-pre-paginated"/&gt;</pre>
<p>It is done this way because the JavaScript code that is the demo has to have a specific size. Normally, in the
    browser, the JS code fetches the size of the innerWindow, but that doesn't work from inside an EPUB reading system
    since it normally wraps the actual page content in a iFrame or other construct. So it works much better to specify
    a fixed size page.</p>
<p>The other interesting aspect is the use of PrismJS to colorize the JavaScript code for better readability. This requires
    that each block of code to be colorized be wrapped in a &lt;code&gt; element and the language specified as part a
    CSS style, e.g. </p>
<pre>&lt;code&#32;class="language-javascript"&gt;</pre>
<p>Finally, all the illegal HTML characters need to be escaped (<em>e.g.</em> &amp;lt; <em>etc.</em>). This is a bit of a pain since if the
    actual demo code is modified then the example code in the chapter has to be updated. Fortunately, after the first few
    lessons only the JavaScript code is shown in the chapter so it's pretty straightforward.</p>
</div>
</body>
</html>