<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
	<title>NeHe-EPUB-Preface</title>
	<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../css/NeHe-EPUB.css"/>
	<meta charset="utf-8"/>
</head>
<body>
<div class="body">
<h1>Preface</h1>
<p>This book is an exploration of using WebGL and three.js using the well-known NeHe lessons as basis for the
	exploration.  The book began as a collaboration between Johannes Raida and Ric Wright. Johannes began writing some
	lessons using the well known OpenGL lessons known as <a href="http://nehe.gamedev.net/">NeHe</a>. He posted these
	to his <a href="http://www.johannes-raida.de/index.htm">website.</a> Ric then joined in and began porting the rest of
	the lessons to three.js and WebGL.</p>
<p>All 48 lessons have now been ported. This book covers the first 16 lessons. Subsequent volumes cover lessons 17-32 and 33-48.Not all of them have been ported for various reasons. The first lesson, for example, is just an explanation of how to set up OpenGL. We do cover &quot;setting
	up&quot; WebGL and three.js, but since it is pretty trivial (all the major browsers now support WebGL by default) the
	first chapter is pretty short. Some of the other lessons cover subjects (e.g. using bitmap fonts) which are unneeded
	or &quot;just work&quot; in three.js so don't warrant spending time covering.</p>
<p>Ric is the Director of Engineering for the <a href="http://readium.org/">Readium</a> project, which is an open-source
	foundation dedicated to providing web apps and a SDK for rendering <a href="http://idpf.org/epub/301">EPUB</a>, the
	standard format for eBooks. As a demonstration of the capabilities of EPUB and Readium, Ric took the lessons and
	created these EPUBs. The details of how this book was created are covered in the <a href="colophon.xhtml" title="Colophon" target="_self">colophon</a> at the end of the book.</p>
<p>If you have any feedback, suggestions or bug reports about this book, you are strongly encouraged to contact
	<a href="mailto:rkwright@readium.org">Ric</a> directly.</p>
	<p><em>Johnsburg, Illinois<br/>
November 2017</em></p>
</div>
</body>
</html>