<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
		<!--
  			Roughly based (or inspired by) NeHe Tutorial 15  
  			Original:  http://nehe.gamedev.net/tutorial/texture_mapped_outline_fonts/18001/
  
  			@author: rkwright@geofx.com
		 -->
		<title>NEHE Tutorial 15</title>
		<meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/>

		<!-- The following meta line optimizes the site for mobile devices. It sets the viewport size
		to the screen size, so it will be displayed maximized, but unscaled. -->
		<meta name="viewport" content="width=768,height=1024"/>
	<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../css/NeHe.css" />

	<!-- Include several libraries from THREE.js and the Scene class  -->
	<script src="../three-js/three.js" type="text/javascript"></script>
	<script src="../three-js/Detector.js" type="text/javascript"></script>
	<script src="../three-js/stats.js" type="text/javascript"></script>
	<script src="../gfx/OrbitControls-Touch-Ortho.js" type="text/javascript"></script>
	<script src="../gfx/gfx-scene.js" type="text/javascript"></script>

	<!-- include the JSON format font files we will use -->
	<!-- script src="../fonts/gentilis_bold.typeface.js"></script -->
	<!-- script src="../fonts/gentilis_regular.typeface.js"></script -->

	<!-- the shaders  -->
	<script id="vertexShader" type="x-shader/x-vertex">
			varying vec2 		vUv;

			/**
			 * Multiply each vertex by the model-view matrix and the projection
			 * matrix (both provided by Three.js) to get a final vertex position
			 */
			void main() {

				// set the variables passed (behind the scenes) by three.js to our
				// "varying" variables, which makes them available to the other shader
				vUv = uv;

				gl_Position = projectionMatrix * modelViewMatrix * vec4(position,1.0);
			}
		</script>

	<!-- Note we have two fragment shaders - one for each texture 	 -->
	<script id="fragmentShader" type="x-shader/x-fragment">
			// create the shared variables. which are set in the vertex shader
			varying vec2 		vUv;
			uniform sampler2D 	texImage;

			void main(void) {

				gl_FragColor = texture2D(texImage, vUv);
			}
		</script>

	<script id="fragmentShader-L" type="x-shader/x-fragment">
			// create the shared variables. which are set in the vertex shader
			//varying vec3 		vNormal;
			varying vec2 		vUv;
			uniform sampler2D 	leatherImage;

			void main(void) {

				gl_FragColor = texture2D(leatherImage, vUv);
			}
		</script>
</head>
<body>
<script>
    // global variables
    var 	textGeom;

    var 	size = 1;				// this is actually the HEIGHT of the text. in user-space
    var 	height = 0.2;			// this is TOTALLY misnamed.  It is the thickness of the extruded text
    var		curveSegments = 10;		// number of points on "the curve" - which curve?
    var 	fontName = "../fonts/gentilis_bold.typeface.json";

    var		bevelThickness = 0.05;
    var		bevelSize = 0.05;
    var 	bevelEnabled = false;

    var		textMat = 0;
    var 	extrudeMaterial = 0;
    var		text= "Shazaam!";
    var     texture;
    var     leather;

    // allocate the Scene object, request orbitControls, some of 3D axes 10 units high and the stats
    var gfxScene = new GFX.Scene( {
        canvasWidth : 768,
        canvasHeight : 1024,
		cameraPos:[4,2,10],
		axesHeight:10,
		controls:true,
		displayStats:true });

    // then initialize our demo's stuff
    initializeDemo();

    // Animate the scene
    animateScene();

    /**
     * Initialize the Demo.
     */
    function initializeDemo() {

        createText();
    }

    /**
     * Here we actually create the text.  Not too much to it, actually.
     */
    function createText() {

        // Note that one has to create a Material for both the face the side of the font.
        // Three.js has some bugs, as does the font-converter software at typface.js
        // http://typeface.neocracy.org/fonts.html.  The converter doesn't always keep the
        // same winding order for nested or adjacent paths and then three.js gets confused
        // In addition, with release 69 of three.js, you should not use smooth shading on the face
        // of the font. If you do, you will get some pretty odd artifacts.  Try it and see.
        // However, the face of the font is flat anyway, so flat shading is fine.
        // In addition, you shouldn't use Phong material on the sides.  Again, you'll get odd
        // artifacts.
        // Finally, go easy on the beveling as large bevels tend to look odd (more bugs?)

        // load the image as a texture
        // Note that we load TWO textures, one for the face and one for the sides.  Just to see how
        // it is done.  We then have to have TWO fragment shaders, one for each texture.  However,
        // we still only need one vertex shader since they both do exactly the same thing.
        texture = new THREE.ImageUtils.loadTexture("images/wood-grain.jpg");
        leather = new THREE.ImageUtils.loadTexture("images/green-pebbled-leather.jpg");
        // ensure that our texture gets wrapped so the coverage is complete and uniform
        // also note that the texture needs to be big enough (e.g. at least 512x512) or
        // the sharper curvers will be so stretched it will blur
        texture.wrapS = texture.wrapT = THREE.RepeatWrapping;
        leather.wrapS = leather.wrapT = THREE.RepeatWrapping;

        // add a uniform for the texture.  This is the read-only
        // variables that get passed to our shaders
        var uniforms = {
            texImage:	{ type: 't', value: texture }
        };

        var uniformsL = {
            leatherImage:	{ type: 't', value: leather }
        };

        // find the shaders
        var vs = document.getElementById("vertexShader").textContent;
        var fs = document.getElementById("fragmentShader").textContent;
        var fsL = document.getElementById("fragmentShader-L").textContent;

        // and create our shader material...
        var shaderMaterialW = new THREE.ShaderMaterial({
            uniforms:     	uniforms,			// pass the "uniforms" vars
            shading:        THREE.FlatShading,
            side:           THREE.DoubleSide,	// want the texture on both sides?
            vertexShader:   vs,					// pointers to the shaders
            fragmentShader: fs
        });

        var shaderMaterialL = new THREE.ShaderMaterial({
            uniforms:     	uniformsL,			// pass the "uniforms" vars
            shading:        THREE.FlatShading,
            side:           THREE.DoubleSide,	// want the texture on both sides?
            vertexShader:   vs,					// pointers to the shaders
            fragmentShader: fsL
        });

        var materialArray = [ shaderMaterialL, shaderMaterialW ];
        var loader = new THREE.FontLoader();
        loader.load( fontName, function ( font ) {

            textGeom = new THREE.TextGeometry( text , {
                size: size,						// actually the height of the font, in user-space
                height: height,					// THICKNESS of the extruded font, in user-space
                curveSegments: curveSegments,
                font: font,						// name of the font
                //weight: weight,					// bold or normal
                //style: style,					// regular, italic or bold
                bevelThickness: bevelThickness,
                bevelSize: bevelSize,
                bevelEnabled: bevelEnabled
            });

            var textMaterial = new THREE.MeshFaceMaterial(materialArray);
            var textMesh = new THREE.Mesh(textGeom, textMaterial );

            textGeom.computeBoundingBox();
            textGeom.computeVertexNormals();

            // get the width of the string so we can center it on the origin
            textGeom.computeBoundingBox();

            var textWidth = textGeom.boundingBox.max.x - textGeom.boundingBox.min.x;

            textMesh.position.set(-0.5 * textWidth, 0, 0.5 );
            gfxScene.add(textMesh);
        });

    }

    /**
     * Animate the scene and call rendering.
     */
    function animateScene() {

        // Tell the browser to call this function when page is visible
        requestAnimationFrame(animateScene);

        // Map the 3D scene down to the 2D screen (render the frame)
        gfxScene.renderScene();
    }
</script>
</body>
</html>
