<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>Three.js tutorial - Lesson 03</title>
        <meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>

		<!-- The following meta line sets the size of the fixed viewport for
                     a pre-paginated EPUB page -->
		<meta name="viewport" content="width=768, height=1024"></meta>
		<style type="text/css">
			body {
				/* Set the background color of the HTML page to black */
				background-color: #000000;

				/* Hide oversized content. This prevents the scroll bars. */
				overflow: hidden;
			}
		</style>
		<!-- Include two libraries
		1. Three.js (core library)
		2. Detector.js (checks the browsers WebGL capabilities) -->
		<script src="../js/three.js"></script>
		<script src="../js/Detector.js"></script>
	</head>
	<body>
		<!-- This is the DIV element which will contain the WebGL canvas. To be identifiable later on,
		the id 'WebGLCanvas' is applied to it. -->
		<div id="WebGLCanvas">

		<!-- This JavaScript block encloses the Three.js commands -->
		<script>
			// Global scene object
			var scene;

			// Global camera object
			var camera;

			// Initialize the scene
			initializeScene();

			// Render the scene (map the 3D world to the 2D scene)
			renderScene();

			/**
			 * Initialze the scene.
			 */
			function initializeScene(){
				// Check whether the browser supports WebGL. If so, instantiate the hardware accelerated
				// WebGL renderer. For antialiasing, we have to enable it. The canvas renderer uses
				// antialiasing by default.
				// The approach of multiplse renderers is quite nice, because your scene can also be
				// viewed in browsers, which don't support WebGL. The limitations of the canvas renderer
				// in contrast to the WebGL renderer will be explained in the tutorials, when there is a
				// difference.
				if(Detector.webgl){
					renderer = new THREE.WebGLRenderer({antialias:true});

				// If its not supported, instantiate the canvas renderer to support all non WebGL
				// browsers
				} else {
					renderer = new THREE.CanvasRenderer();
				}

				// Set the background color of the renderer to black, with full opacity
				renderer.setClearColor(0x000000, 1);

				// Get the fixed window size
				canvasWidth = 768;
				canvasHeight = 1024;

				// Set the renderers size to the content areas size
				renderer.setSize(canvasWidth, canvasHeight);

				// Get the DIV element from the HTML document by its ID and append the renderers DOM
				// object to it
				document.getElementById("WebGLCanvas").appendChild(renderer.domElement);

				// Create the scene, in which all objects are stored (e. g. camera, lights,
				// geometries, ...)
				scene = new THREE.Scene();

				// Now that we have a scene, we want to look into it. Therefore we need a camera.
				// Three.js offers three camera types:
				//  - PerspectiveCamera (perspective projection)
				//  - OrthographicCamera (parallel projection)
				//  - CombinedCamera (allows to switch between perspective / parallel projection
				//    during runtime)
				// In this example we create a perspective camera. Parameters for the perspective
				// camera are ...
				// ... field of view (FOV),
				// ... aspect ratio (usually set to the quotient of canvas width to canvas height)
				// ... near and
				// ... far.
				// Near and far define the cliping planes of the view frustum. Three.js provides an
				// example (http://mrdoob.github.com/three.js/examples/
				// -> canvas_camera_orthographic2.html), which allows to play around with these
				// parameters.
				// The camera is moved 15 units towards the z axis to allow looking to the center of
				// the scene.
				// After definition, the camera has to be added to the scene.
				camera = new THREE.PerspectiveCamera(45, canvasWidth / canvasHeight, 1, 100);
				camera.position.set(0, 0, 15);
				camera.lookAt(scene.position);
				scene.add(camera);

				// Create the triangle (or any arbitrary geometry).
				// 1. Instantiate the geometry object
				// 2. Add the vertices
				// 3. Define the faces by setting the vertices indices
				var triangleGeometry = new THREE.Geometry();
				triangleGeometry.vertices.push(new THREE.Vector3( 0.0,  1.0, 0.0));
				triangleGeometry.vertices.push(new THREE.Vector3(-1.0, -1.0, 0.0));
				triangleGeometry.vertices.push(new THREE.Vector3( 1.0, -1.0, 0.0));
				triangleGeometry.faces.push(new THREE.Face3(0, 1, 2));

				// To color the surface, a material has to be created. If all vertices shall have
				// different colors, we need to set the vertex colors of each face. The colors in
				// between will be interpolated as color gradients.

				triangleGeometry.faces[0].vertexColors[0] = new THREE.Color(0xFF0000);
				triangleGeometry.faces[0].vertexColors[1] = new THREE.Color(0x00FF00);
				triangleGeometry.faces[0].vertexColors[2] = new THREE.Color(0x0000FF);

				// To activate the vertex color, we have to set 'vertexColors' attribute to
				// 'THREE.VertexColors'. Otherwise they won't be displayed.

				// Create a basic material, supporting vertex colors. Activate the 'doubleSided'
				// attribute to force the rendering of both sides of each face (front and back).
				// This prevents the so called 'backface culling'. Usually, only the side is
				// rendered, whose normal vector points towards the camera. The other side is not
				// rendered (backface culling). But this performance optimization sometimes leads
				// to wholes in the surface. When this happens in your surface, simply set
				// 'doubleSided' to 'true'.
				var triangleMaterial = new THREE.MeshBasicMaterial({
					vertexColors:THREE.VertexColors,
					side:THREE.DoubleSide
				});

				// Create a mesh and insert the geometry and the material. Translate the whole mesh
				// by -1.5 on the x axis and by 4 on the z axis. Finally add the mesh to the scene.
				var triangleMesh = new THREE.Mesh(triangleGeometry, triangleMaterial);
				triangleMesh.position.set(-1.5, 0.0, 4.0);
				scene.add(triangleMesh);

				// The creation of the square is done in the same way as the triangle, except that we
				// now need two THREE.Face3s.
				// 1. Instantiate the geometry object
				// 2. Add the vertices
				// 3. Define the faces by setting the vertices indices
				var squareGeometry = new THREE.Geometry();
				squareGeometry.vertices.push(new THREE.Vector3(-1.0,  1.0, 0.0));
				squareGeometry.vertices.push(new THREE.Vector3( 1.0,  1.0, 0.0));
				squareGeometry.vertices.push(new THREE.Vector3( 1.0, -1.0, 0.0));
				squareGeometry.vertices.push(new THREE.Vector3(-1.0, -1.0, 0.0));
				squareGeometry.faces.push(new THREE.Face3(0, 1, 2));
				squareGeometry.faces.push(new THREE.Face3(0, 2, 3));

				// The square gets a new face color. In contrast to vertex colors means face color,
				// that all vertices have the same color or in other words, the whole face has the
				// same color (no color gradients).

				// Create a light blue basic material and activate the 'doubleSided' attribute.
				var squareMaterial = new THREE.MeshBasicMaterial({
					color:0x8080FF,
					side:THREE.DoubleSide
				});

				// Create a mesh and insert the geometry and the material. Translate the whole mesh
				// by 1.5 on the x axis and by 4 on the z axis and add the mesh to the scene.
				var squareMesh = new THREE.Mesh(squareGeometry, squareMaterial);
				squareMesh.position.set(1.5, 0.0, 4.0);
				scene.add(squareMesh);
			}

			/**
			 * Render the scene. Map the 3D world to the 2D screen.
			 */
			function renderScene(){
				renderer.render(scene, camera);
			}
		</script>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
