<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta name="generator" content=
"HTML Tidy for FreeBSD (vers 7 December 2008), see www.w3.org" />
<title>The Emerald City of Oz</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/main.css" type="text/css" />
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content=
"application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
</head>
<body>
<div class="body">
<div id="chapter_10254" class="chapter">
<h2><span class="chapterHeader"><span class=
"translation">Chapter</span> <span class="count">29</span></span>
How Glinda Worked a Magic Spell</h2>
<div class="text">
<p>"That was better than fighting," said Ozma, when all our friends
were assembled in the palace after the exciting events of the
morning; and each and every one agreed with her.</p>
<p>"No one was hurt," said the Wizard, delightedly.</p>
<p>"And no one hurt us," added Aunt Em.</p>
<p>"But, best of all," said Dorothy, "the wicked people have all
forgotten their wickedness, and will not wish to hurt any one after
this."</p>
<p>"True, Princess," declared the Shaggy Man. "It seems to me that
to have reformed all those evil characters is more important than
to have saved Oz."</p>
<p>"Nevertheless," remarked the Scarecrow, "I am glad Oz is saved.
I can now go back to my new mansion and live happily."</p>
<p>"And I am glad and grateful that my pumpkin farm is saved," said
Jack.</p>
<p>"For my part," added the Tin Woodman, "I cannot express my joy
that my lovely tin castle is not to be demolished by wicked
enemies."</p>
<p>"Still," said Tiktok, "o-ther en-e-mies may come to Oz some
day."</p>
<p>"Why do you allow your clock-work brains to interrupt our joy?"
asked Omby Amby, frowning at the machine man.</p>
<p>"I say what I am wound up to say," answered Tiktok.</p>
<p>"And you are right," declared Ozma. "I myself have been thinking
of this very idea, and it seems to me there are entirely too many
ways for people to get to the Land of Oz. We used to think the
deadly desert that surrounds us was enough protection; but that is
no longer the case. The Wizard and Dorothy have both come here
through the air, and I am told the earth people have invented
airships that can fly anywhere they wish them to go."</p>
<p>"Why, sometimes they do, and sometimes they don't," asserted
Dorothy.</p>
<p>"But in time the airships may cause us trouble," continued Ozma,
"for if the earth folk learn how to manage them we would be overrun
with visitors who would ruin our lovely, secluded fairyland."</p>
<p>"That is true enough," agreed the Wizard.</p>
<p>"Also the desert fails to protect us in other ways," Ozma went
on, thoughtfully. "Johnny Dooit once made a sand-boat that sailed
across it, and the Nome King made a tunnel under it. So I believe
something ought to be done to cut us off from the rest of the world
entirely, so that no one in the future will ever be able to intrude
upon us."</p>
<p>"How will you do that?" asked the Scarecrow.</p>
<p>"I do not know; but in some way I am sure it can be
accomplished. To-morrow I will make a journey to the castle of
Glinda the Good, and ask her advice."</p>
<p>"May I go with you?" asked Dorothy, eagerly.</p>
<p>"Of course, my dear Princess; and I also invite any of our
friends here who would like to undertake the journey."</p>
<p>They all declared they wished to accompany their girl Ruler, for
this was indeed an important mission, since the future of the Land
of Oz to a great extent depended upon it. So Ozma gave orders to
her servants to prepare for the journey on the morrow.</p>
<p>That day she watched her Magic Picture, and when it showed her
that all the Nomes had returned through the tunnel to their
underground caverns, Ozma used the Magic Belt to close up the
tunnel, so that the earth underneath the desert sands became as
solid as it was before the Nomes began to dig.</p>
<p>Early the following morning a gay cavalcade set out to visit the
famous Sorceress, Glinda the Good. Ozma and Dorothy rode in a
chariot drawn by the Cowardly Lion and the Hungry Tiger, while the
Sawhorse drew the red wagon in which rode the rest of the
party.</p>
<p>With hearts light and free from care they traveled merrily along
through the lovely and fascinating Land of Oz, and in good season
reached the stately castle in which resided the Sorceress.</p>
<p>Glinda knew that they were coming.</p>
<p>"I have been reading about you in my Magic Book," she said, as
she greeted them in her gracious way.</p>
<p>"What is your Magic Book like?" inquired Aunt Em, curiously.</p>
<p>"It is a record of everything that happens," replied the
Sorceress. "As soon as an event takes place, anywhere in the world,
it is immediately found printed in my Magic Book. So when I read
its pages I am well informed."</p>
<p>"Did it tell you how our enemies drank the Water of 'Blivion?"
asked Dorothy.</p>
<p>"Yes, my dear; it told all about it. And also it told me you
were all coming to my castle, and why."</p>
<p>"Then," said Ozma, "I suppose you know what is in my mind, and
that I am seeking a way to prevent any one in the future from
discovering the Land of Oz."</p>
<p>"Yes; I know that. And while you were on your journey I have
thought of a way to accomplish your desire. For it seems to me
unwise to allow too many outside people to come here. Dorothy, with
her uncle and aunt, has now returned to Oz to live always, and
there is no reason why we should leave any way open for others to
travel uninvited to our fairyland. Let us make it impossible for
any one ever to communicate with us in any way, after this. Then we
may live peacefully and contentedly."</p>
<p>"Your advice is wise," returned Ozma. "I thank you, Glinda, for
your promise to assist me."</p>
<p>"But how can you do it?" asked Dorothy. "How can you keep every
one from ever finding Oz?"</p>
<p>"By making our country invisible to all eyes but our own,"
replied the Sorceress, smiling. "I have a magic charm powerful
enough to accomplish that wonderful feat, and now that we have been
warned of our danger by the Nome King's invasion, I believe we must
not hesitate to separate ourselves forever from all the rest of the
world."</p>
<p>"I agree with you," said the Ruler of Oz.</p>
<p>"Won't it make any difference to us?" asked Dorothy,
doubtfully.</p>
<p>"No, my dear," Glinda answered, assuringly. "We shall still be
able to see each other and everything in the Land of Oz. It won't
affect us at all; but those who fly through the air over our
country will look down and see nothing at all. Those who come to
the edge of the desert, or try to cross it, will catch no glimpse
of Oz, or know in what direction it lies. No one will try to tunnel
to us again because we cannot be seen and therefore cannot be
found. In other words, the Land of Oz will entirely disappear from
the knowledge of the rest of the world."</p>
<p>"That's all right," said Dorothy, cheerfully. "You may make Oz
invis'ble as soon as you please, for all I care."</p>
<p>"It is already invisible," Glinda stated. "I knew Ozma's wishes,
and performed the Magic Spell before you arrived."</p>
<p>Ozma seized the hand of the Sorceress and pressed it
gratefully.</p>
<p>"Thank you!" she said.</p>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
