<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta name="generator" content=
"HTML Tidy for FreeBSD (vers 7 December 2008), see www.w3.org" />
<title>The Emerald City of Oz</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/main.css" type="text/css" />
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content=
"application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
</head>
<body>
<div class="body">
<div id="chapter_10232" class="chapter">
<h2><span class="chapterHeader"><span class=
"translation">Chapter</span> <span class="count">18</span></span>
How Ozma Looked into the Magic Picture</h2>
<div class="text">
<p>Princess Ozma was a very busy little ruler, for she looked
carefully after the comfort and welfare of her people and tried to
make them happy. If any quarrels arose she decided them justly; if
any one needed counsel or advice she was ready and willing to
listen to them.</p>
<p>For a day or two after Dorothy and her companions had started on
their trip, Ozma was occupied with the affairs of her kingdom. Then
she began to think of some manner of occupation for Uncle Henry and
Aunt Em that would be light and easy and yet give the old people
something to do.</p>
<p>She soon decided to make Uncle Henry the Keeper of the Jewels,
for some one really was needed to count and look after the bins and
barrels of emeralds, diamonds, rubies and other precious stones
that were in the Royal Storehouses. That would keep Uncle Henry
busy enough, but it was harder to find something for Aunt Em to do.
The palace was full of servants, so there was no detail of
housework that Aunt Em could look after.</p>
<p>While Ozma sat in her pretty room engaged in thought she
happened to glance at her Magic Picture.</p>
<p>This was one of the most important treasures in all the Land of
Oz. It was a large picture, set in a beautiful gold frame, and it
hung in a prominent place upon a wall of Ozma's private room.</p>
<p>Usually this picture seemed merely a country scene, but whenever
Ozma looked at it and wished to know what any of her friends or
acquaintances were doing, the magic of this wonderful picture was
straightway disclosed. For the country scene would gradually fade
away and in its place would appear the likeness of the person or
persons Ozma might wish to see, surrounded by the actual scenes in
which they were then placed. In this way the Princess could view
any part of the world she wished, and watch the actions of any one
in whom she was interested.</p>
<p>Ozma had often seen Dorothy in her Kansas home by this means,
and now, having a little leisure, she expressed a desire to see her
little friend again. It was while the travelers were at
Fuddlecumjig, and Ozma laughed merrily as she watched in the
picture her friends trying to match the pieces of Grandmother
Gnit.</p>
<p>"They seem happy and are doubtless having a good time," the girl
Ruler said to herself; and then she began to think of the many
adventures she herself had encountered with Dorothy.</p>
<p>The image of her friends now faded from the Magic Picture and
the old landscape slowly reappeared.</p>
<p>Ozma was thinking of the time when with Dorothy and her army she
marched to the Nome King's underground cavern, beyond the Land of
Ev, and forced the old monarch to liberate his captives, who
belonged to the Royal Family of Ev. That was the time when the
Scarecrow nearly frightened the Nome King into fits by throwing one
of Billina's eggs at him, and Dorothy had captured King Roquat's
Magic Belt and brought it away with her to the Land of Oz.</p>
<p>The pretty Princess smiled at the recollection of this
adventure, and then she wondered what had become of the Nome King
since then. Merely because she was curious and had nothing better
to do, Ozma glanced at the Magic Picture and wished to see in it
the King of the Nomes.</p>
<p>Roquat the Red went every day into his tunnel to see how the
work was getting along and to hurry his workmen as much as
possible. He was there now, and Ozma saw him plainly in the Magic
Picture.</p>
<p>She saw the underground tunnel, reaching far underneath the
Deadly Desert which separated the Land of Oz from the mountains
beneath which the Nome King had his extensive caverns. She saw that
the tunnel was being made in the direction of the Emerald City, and
knew at once it was being dug so that the army of Nomes could march
through it and attack her own beautiful and peaceful country.</p>
<p>"I suppose King Roquat is planning revenge against us," she
said, musingly, "and thinks he can surprise us and make us his
captives and slaves. How sad it is that any one can have such
wicked thoughts! But I must not blame King Roquat too severely, for
he is a Nome, and his nature is not so gentle as my own."</p>
<p>Then she dismissed from her mind further thought of the tunnel,
for that time, and began to wonder if Aunt Em would not be happy as
Royal Mender of the Stockings of the Ruler of Oz. Ozma wore few
holes in her stockings; still, they sometimes needed mending. Aunt
Em ought to be able to do that very nicely.</p>
<p>Next day, the Princess watched the tunnel again in her Magic
Picture, and every day afterward she devoted a few minutes to
inspecting the work. It was not especially interesting, but she
felt that it was her duty.</p>
<p>Slowly but surely the big, arched hole crept through the rocks
underneath the deadly desert, and day by day it drew nearer and
nearer to the Emerald City.</p>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
