<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
	<title>NeHe-EPUB-Preface</title>
	<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../css/NeHe-EPUB.css"/>
	<meta charset="utf-8"/>
</head>
<body>
<div class="body">
<h1>Preface</h1>
<p>This book is the second voume in a series exploring using WebGL and three.js using the well-known NeHe lessons as basis for the
	exploration.  These books began as a collaboration between Johannes Raida and Ric Wright. Johannes began writing some
	lessons using the well known OpenGL lessons known as <a href="http://nehe.gamedev.net/">NeHe</a>. He posted these
	to his <a href="http://www.johannes-raida.de/index.htm">website.</a> Ric then joined in and began porting the rest of
	the lessons to three.js and WebGL.</p>
<p> All 48 (or all those relevant) lessons have now been ported. This volume covers the second 16 lessons (17 through 32). Not all the lessons have been ported
	 for various reasons.  Some of the  lessons cover subjects (e.g. using bitmap fonts) which are unneeded
	or &quot;just work&quot; in three.js so don't warrant spending time covering.</p>
<p>Ric is the Director of Engineering for the <a href="http://readium.org/">Readium</a> project, which is an open-source
	foundation dedicated to providing web apps and a SDK for rendering <a href="http://idpf.org/epub/301">EPUB</a>, the
	standard format for eBooks. As a demonstration of the capabilities of EPUB and Readium, Ric took the lessons and
	created this EPUB. The details of how this book was created are covered in the <a href="colophon.xhtml" title="Colophon" target="_self">colophon</a> at the end of the book.</p>
<p>If you have any feedback, suggestions or bug reports about this book, you are strongly encouraged to contact
	<a href="mailto:rkwright@readium.org">Ric</a> directly.</p>
</div>
</body>
</html>